# Venezuela Sanctions FAQ Topic Page

Specially Designated Nationals List (SDN List)
Consolidated Sanctions List (Non-SDN Lists)
Additional Sanctions Lists
Search OFAC's Sanctions Lists
Sanctions Programs and Country Information
Recent Actions
OFAC License Application Page
Additional OFAC Resources
Frequently Asked Questions
Civil Penalties and Enforcement Information
OFAC Reporting System
Selected General Licenses Issued by OFAC
Contact OFAC
Venezuela Sanctions
Print this topic
Venezuela Sanctions
505. If an official of the Government of Venezuela is designated as a Specially Designated National (SDN), does that mean that the Government of Venezuela is blocked? What are the prohibitions on U.S. persons dealing with a designated government official?
No. The designation of an official of the Government of Venezuela does not mean that the government itself is also blocked. The prohibitions apply to transactions or dealings only with the individuals and entities whose property and interests in property are blocked. However, U.S. persons should be cautious in dealings with the government to ensure that they are not engaged in transactions or dealings, directly or indirectly, with an SDN , for example by entering into contracts that are signed by an SDN, entering into negotiations with an SDN, or by processing transactions, directly or indirectly, on behalf of the SDN, absent authorization or an applicable exemption.
Released on July 19, 2018
507. For purposes of Executive Order (E.O.) 13808 is Petroleos de Venezuela, S.A. (PdVSA) considered part of the Government of Venezuela?
Yes, but prohibitions on dealing in new debt vary based on whether the entity involved is a PdVSA entity or another part of the Government of Venezuela. Subsection 1 (a)(i) of E.O. 13808 prohibits engaging in transactions related to, providing financing for, or otherwise dealing in debt if (1) that debt is issued on or after the sanctions effective date ("new debt"); (2) has a maturity of longer than 90 days; and (3) is issued by, on behalf of, or for the benefit of PdVSA, its property, or its interests in property. Subsection 1 (a)(ii) of E.O. 13808 prohibits engaging in transactions related to, providing financing for, or otherwise dealing in new debt with a maturity of longer than 30 days issued by, on behalf of, or for the benefit of any other segment of the Government of Venezuela, its property, or its interests in property. Subsection 1(a)(ii) of E.O. 13808 further prohibits engaging in transactions related to, providing financing for, or otherwise dealing in equity issued on or after the sanctions effective date ("new equity") by, on behalf of, or for the benefit of the Government of Venezuela (including PdVSA), its property, or its interests in property
Released on July 19, 2018
508. What do the prohibitions in Executive Order (E.O) .13808 mean? Are they blocking actions?
No. E.O. 13808 , as amended by E.O. 13857 , does not authorize the blocking of property. E.O. 13808, however, should be read in conjunction with other Venezuela-related authorities, such as the E.O. 13884 , which blocks the Government of Venezuela, and E.O. 13850, as amended, under which certain Government of Venezuela entities, including Petróleos de Venezuela, S.A. (PdVSA), are designated.
Subsection 1(a)(i) of E.O. 13808 prohibits engaging in transactions related to, providing financing for, or otherwise dealing in debt issued on or after August 25, 2017, with a maturity of longer than 90 days and issued by, on behalf of, or for the benefit of PdVSA, its property, or its interests in property.
Subsection 1(a)(ii) of E.O. 13808 prohibits engaging in transactions related to, providing financing for, or otherwise dealing in debt issued on or after August 25, 2017, with a maturity of longer than 30 days and issued by, on behalf of, or for the benefit of any other segment of the Government of Venezuela, its property, or its interests in property. That subsection further prohibits engaging in transactions related to, providing financing for, or otherwise dealing in equity issued on or after August 25, 2017, and issued by, on behalf of, or for the benefit of the Government of Venezuela (including PdVSA), its property, or its interests in property.
Subsection 1(a)(iii) of E.O. 13808 prohibits engaging in transactions related to, providing financing for, or otherwise dealing in bonds issued by the Government of Venezuela prior to August 25, 2017.
Subsection 1(a)(iv) of E.O. 13808 prohibits engaging in transactions related to, providing financing for, or otherwise dealing in dividend payments or other distributions of profits to the Government of Venezuela by any entity owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Government of Venezuela.
Section 1(b) of E.O. 13808 prohibits purchasing any securities from the Government of Venezuela other than securities issued on or after August 25, 2017, with a maturity of less than or equal to 90 days (for PdVSA) or 30 days (for the rest of the Government of Venezuela).
E.O. 13808 prohibits transactions by U.S. persons wherever they are located, and transactions within the United States. For transactions involving blocked persons, including the Government of Venezuela and any entity in which it owns, directly or indirectly, a 50 percent or greater interest, U.S. persons are prohibited from engaging in any activity or transaction with such blocked persons unless exempt or otherwise authorized by OFAC. If there is a Venezuela-related general license authorizing dealings with such blocked persons, but the transactions or dealings fall within the prohibitions of E.O. 13808, U.S. persons should reject such transactions, unless an authorization allowing transactions and other dealings otherwise prohibited by E.O. 13808 also applies. U.S. persons must report to OFAC any blocked or rejected transactions within 10 business days.
Released on August 6, 2019
509. Is there a wind-down or safe harbor provision for the prohibitions in Executive Order (E.O.) 13808?
General License 1, which expired on September 25, 2017, provided a wind-down period with respect to contracts and other agreements that were in effect prior to August 25, 2017. That general license provided 30 days in which to conduct all transactions and activities otherwise prohibited by Subsections 1(a)(i)-(iii) and (b) of E.O.13808 that were ordinarily incident and necessary to winding down such agreements.There is no wind-down authorization for Subsection 1(a)(iv) of E.O. 13808
Released on July 19, 2018
510. Has OFAC issued general licenses related to Executive Order (E.O.) 13808?
OFAC has issued four general licenses related to E.O.13808 . General License 1, which expired on September 25, 2017, applied to contracts and other agreements that were in effect prior to August 25, 2017. It provided 30 days in which to conduct all transactions and activities otherwise prohibited by Subsections 1 (a)(i)-(iii) and (b) of E.O. 13808 that were ordinarily incident and necessary to winding down such agreements.
General License 2 authorizes all transactions otherwise prohibited by Subsections 1(a)(i), (a)(ii), and (b) of E.O.13808 provided that the only Government of Venezuela entities involved in the transactions are CITGO Holding, Inc. and any of its subsidiaries.
General License 3 authorizes all transactions related to, the provision of financing for, and other dealings in bonds contained in the Annex to General License 3 that would otherwise be prohibited by Section 1(a)(iii) of E.O. 13808. The Annex is also available as a stand-alone document on the Venezuela-related Sanctions page of OFAC’s website. General License 3 further authorizes all transactions related to, the provision of financing for, and other dealings in bonds issued prior to August 25, 2017, if such bonds were issued by U.S. person entities owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Government of Venezuela, such as CITGO Holding, Inc.
General License 4 authorizes all transactions related to the provision of financing for, and other dealings in debt issued on or after August 25, 2017 related to the exportation or reexportation of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, or replacement parts and components for medical devices, to Venezuela, or to persons in third countries purchasing specifically for resale to Venezuela, provided that the exportation or reexportation is licensed or otherwise authorized by the
Department of Commerce.
All of the general licenses are available on OFAC's website on the Venezuela-related Sanctions page . Review them for details.
Released on July 19, 2019
511. For purposes of Executive Order (E.O.) 13808, what does OFAC interpret to be debt and equity? Can U.S. financial institutions continue to maintain correspondent accounts and process U.S. dollar-clearing transactions for the entities subject to these sanctions?
The term debt includes bonds, loans, extensions of credit, loan guarantees, letters of credit, drafts, bankers acceptances, discount notes or bills, or commercial paper. The term equity includes stocks, share issuances, depositary receipts, or any other evidence of title or ownership.
The prohibitions in Subsections 1(a)(i) of E.O. 13808 apply to all transactions involving debt issued on or after August 25, 2017, with a maturity of longer than 90 days; all financing in support of such new debt; and any dealing in, including provision of services in support of, such new debt.
The prohibitions in Subsections 1(a)(ii) of E.O.13808 apply to all transactions involving debt issued on or after August 25, 2017, with a maturity of longer than 30 days or equity issued on or after August 25, 2017; all financing in support of such new debt or new equity; and any dealing in, including provision of services in support of, such new debt or new equity.
These E.O. 13808 prohibitions extend to rollover of existing debt, if such rollover results in the creation of new debt with a maturity of longer than 90 days (with respect to PdVSA debt) or longer than 30 days (with respect to the rest of the Government of Venezuela debt).
Engaging in transactions related to, providing financing for, or otherwise dealing in any equity issued by, on behalf of, or for the Government of Venezuela is permissible, if the equity was issued prior to August 25, 2017 and the transactions, financing, or other dealings are not prohibited by any other Venezuela-related E.O. or other applicable laws or regulations.
Engaging in transactions related to, providing financing for, or otherwise dealing in any debt issued by, on behalf of, or for the Government of Venezuela is permissible if the debt was issued prior to August 25, 2017, and, in the case of bonds, either (1) the bonds are included in the Annex to General License 3, or (2) the bonds were issued by U.S. person entities owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Government of Venezuela (such as CITGO Holding, Inc.). The Annex to General License 3 is available as a stand-alone document on the Venezuela-related Sanctions page of OFAC's website. The list will also be published in the Federal Register, as will any changes to the list.
E.O. 13808 prohibits U.S. persons from purchasing securities of any kind – including debt and equity securities – from the Government of Venezuela. The exception to this prohibition is purchasing securities that qualify as (a) debt of PdVSA issued on or after August 25, 2017, with a maturity of less than or equal to 90 days, or (b) debt of any other part of the Government of Venezuela issued on or after August 25, 2017, with a maturity of less than or equal to 30 days. U.S. persons may deal with the Government of Venezuela as counterparty to transactions involving securities that fall into either of these two categories. U.S. persons are not authorized to purchase, directly or indirectly, bonds in the Annex to General License 3 from the Government of Venezuela.
Unlike the debt-related prohibitions of E.O. 13808, which address certain debt of the Government of Venezuela, including PdVSA, the debt-related provisions of E.O. 13835 address debt that is owed to the Government of Venezuela. The prohibitions in Subsections 1(a)(i) and (ii) of E.O. 13835 apply to all transactions related to, provision of financing for, and other dealings in (i) the purchase of any debt owed to the Government of Venezuela, including accounts receivable, and (ii) any debt owed to the Government of Venezuela that is pledged as collateral after May 21, 2018, including accounts receivable, respectively.
The equity-related prohibition in Subsection 1(a)(iii) of E.O. 13835 applies to any sale, transfer, assignment, or pledging as collateral by the Government of Venezuela of any equity interest in any entity in which the Government of Venezuela has a 50 percent or greater ownership interest; and any dealing in, including provision of services in support of, such transactions.
U.S. financial institutions may continue to maintain correspondent accounts and process U.S. dollar-clearing transactions for the Government of Venezuela, so long as those activities do not involve engaging in transactions prohibited by E.O. 13692 or any subsequent Venezuela-related E.O., or other applicable laws or regulations.
Released on July 19, 2018
512. Why is OFAC imposing sanctions and issuing general licenses specific to bonds and other securities?
The Government of Venezuela is selling assets for much less than they are worth at the expense of the Venezuelan people and using proceeds from these sales to enrich supporters of the regime. Bonds and other securities are among the assets being sold. The prohibitions and related general licenses are meant to prevent U.S. persons from contributing to the Government of Venezuela's corrupt and shortsighted financing schemes while mitigating market disruptions and harm to investors.
Released on August 25, 2017
513. Do the prohibitions imposed pursuant to E.O. 13808 and subsequent Venezuela-related E.O.s also extend to entities owned 50 percent or more by the Government of Venezuela?
In general, yes. These prohibitions apply to transactions related to the Government of Venezuela, which is defined in E.O. 13808 to include all entities owned or controlled by the Government of Venezuela. This would normally include entities owned 50 percent or more by the Government of Venezuela because in most instances such entities would be considered controlled by the Government of Venezuela. Also included are any entities that are less than 50% owned, but otherwise controlled, by the Government of Venezuela. Note, however, that General License 2 authorizes all transactions otherwise prohibited by Subsections 1(a)(i), (a)(ii), and (b) of E.O. 13808 provided that the only Government of Venezuela entities involved in the transactions are CITGO Holding, Inc. or its subsidiaries. General License 3 also authorizes all transactions related to, provision of financing for, and other dealings in bonds issued prior to August 25, 2017, by U.S. person entities owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Government of Venezuela.
Released on July 19, 2018
514. If a U.S. person entered into a revolving credit facility or long-term loan arrangement for the Government of Venezuela prior to the sanctions effective date, what are the restrictions under E.O. 13808 on drawdowns from that facility? Do all drawdowns and disbursements pursuant to the parent agreement need to carry repayment terms of 90 days or less (for PdVSA) or 30 days or less (for the rest of the Government of Venezuela)?
If a U.S. person entered into a long-term credit facility or loan agreement prior to August 25, 2017, drawdowns and disbursements with repayment terms of 90 days or less (for PdVSA) or 30 days or less (for the rest of the Government of Venezuela) are not prohibited. Drawdowns and disbursements whose repayment terms exceed the applicable authorized tenor are also not prohibited if the terms of such drawdowns and disbursements (including the length of the repayment period, the interest rate applied to the drawdown, and the maximum drawdown amount) were contractually agreed to prior to August 25, 2017, and are not modified on or after August 25, 2017. U.S. persons may not deal in a drawdown or disbursement initiated after August 25, 2017 with a repayment term of longer than 90 days (for PdVSA) or 30 days (for the rest of the Government of Venezuela), if the terms of the drawdown or disbursement were negotiated on or after August 25, 2017. Such a newly negotiated drawdown or disbursement would constitute a prohibited transaction related to new debt under E.O. 13808 .
Note that General License 2 authorizes all transactions in new debt of the Government of Venezuela of any tenor provided that the only Government of Venezuela entities involved in the transactions are CITGO Holding, Inc. and any of its subsidiaries.
Released on July 19, 2018
515. For purposes of Executive Order (E.O.) 13808 is the term "new equity" limited to equity that is issued by an entity owned or controlled by the Government of Venezuela after the sanctions effective date, or would equity purchased or acquired by an entity owned or controlled by the Government of Venezuela from a third party after the sanctions effective date be considered new equity?
Under E.O. 13808 , the term "new equity" pertains to equity issued, directly or indirectly, by the Government of Venezuela on or after August 25, 2017. That said, E.O. 13808 also prohibits U.S. persons from purchasing any securities – including equity securities issued by a non-sanctioned party – from the Government of Venezuela. The exception to this prohibition is purchasing securities that qualify as (1) debt of PdVSA issued on or after August 25, 2017, with a maturity of less than or equal to 90 days, or (2) debt of any other part of the Government of Venezuela issued on or after August 25, 2017, with a maturity of less than or equal to 30 days. U.S. persons are not prohibited from dealing with the Government of Venezuela as counterparty to transactions involving securities that fall into either of these two categories. General License 2 authorizes U.S. persons to deal in such new equity issued by CITGO Holding, Inc. or any of its subsidiaries, or to purchase securities from CITGO Holding, Inc. or any of its subsidiaries, provided that no other entities owned or controlled by the Government of Venezuela are involved.
Released on July 19, 2018
516. Does the prohibition in E.O. 13808 on "dealing in new debt" of longer than 90 days maturity (for PdVSA) or 30 days (for the rest of the Government of Venezuela) prohibit dealing in debt with maturity that exceeds the applicable authorized tenor in which the Government of Venezuela is not directly or indirectly the borrower?
E.O.13808 prohibits U.S. persons from dealing in debt of longer than 90 days maturity (for PdVSA) and longer than 30 days maturity (for the rest of the Government of Venezuela) issued on or after August 25, 2017. E.O. 13808 does not prohibit U.S. persons from dealing with the Government of Venezuela as counterparty to most transactions involving debt issued on or after August 25, 2017 by a non-sanctioned party. For example, under E.O. 13808, U.S. persons are not prohibited from dealing with the Government of Venezuela when it plays the role of underwriter on new debt of a non-sanctioned third party exceeding the applicable authorized tenor or accepting payment under a letter of credit with terms exceeding the applicable authorized tenor that is issued, advised, or confirmed by the Government of Venezuela, so long as the Government of Venezuela is not the borrower.
Released on July 19, 2018
517. For the purposes of Executive Order (E.O. 13808) may a U.S. person consent to a replacement of its participation by a non-U.S. person in a long-term loan facility that was extended to the Government of Venezuela prior to the sanctions effective date?
E.O.13808 does not prohibit a U.S. person from engaging in transactions necessary to exit or replace its participation in a long-term loan facility that was extended to the Government of Venezuela prior to August 25, 2017, provided that such transactions do not otherwise run afoul of the order's prohibitions. This would not constitute dealing in new debt. However, U.S. persons involved in such facilities should ensure that all newly negotiated drawdowns or disbursements from the facility utilize repayment terms that are not prohibited by E.O. 13808. See FAQ 394 for additional information on what constitutes a permitted drawdown or disbursement from an existing long-term loan obligation.
Released on July 19, 2018
518. Is a U.S. person permitted under E.O. 13808 to extend credit for greater than 90 days (for PdVSA) or 30 days (for the rest of the Government of Venezuela) to a non-sanctioned party for the purpose of purchasing goods or services from the Government of Venezuela?
E.O.13808 does not prohibit U.S. persons from extending credit for longer than 90 days (for PdVSA) or 30 days (for the rest of the Government of Venezuela) to non-sanctioned parties for the purpose of purchasing goods or services from the Government of Venezuela, so long as the Government of Venezuela is not the indirect borrower.
Released on July 19, 2018
519. How can I help the Venezuelan people while making sure to abide by the U.S. sanctions?
While E.O. 13884 blocks all property and interests in property of the Government of Venezuela that come into the possession or control of U.S. persons or U.S. jurisdiction, the Venezuelan people are not subject to comprehensive U.S. sanctions. Sanctions do not preclude U.S. persons from exporting or reexporting items to Venezuela provided that the transactions do not involve sanctioned individuals or entities or certain prohibited activities. Those involved in exports or reexports to Venezuela, including exports or reexports related to activity authorized by OFAC, should also consult the Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security to ensure eligibility of exportation or reexportation under its authorities. Likewise, the E.O. of August 5, 2019 does not prohibit transactions involving the Government of Venezuela that relate to the provision of articles such as food, clothing, and medicine intended to be used to relieve human suffering. OFAC has also issued General License 4C to authorize further transactions ordinarily incident and necessary to the exportation or reexportation of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to Venezuela, or to persons in third countries purchasing specifically for resale to Venezuela. See General License 4C for details and relevant definitions.
In addition, OFAC maintains several complementary general licenses designed to support assistance to the Venezuelan people. General License 16B authorizes transactions and activities ordinarily incident and necessary to processing noncommercial, personal remittances involving certain financial institutions. General License 20A authorizes official activities of certain international organizations to engage in transactions with the Government of Venezuela. General License 24 authorizes transactions involving the Government of Venezuela incident to the receipt and transmission of telecommunications, as well as transactions of common carriers involving the Government of Venezuela incident to the receipt or transmission of mail and packages between the United States and Venezuela. General License 25 authorizes the exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, from the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, to or involving the Government of Venezuela of services, software, hardware, and technology incident to the exchange of communications over the Internet. General License 26 authorizes the provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services, and the provision of other medical services involving the Government of Venezuela. General License 29 authorizes nongovernmental organizations to engage in activities with the Government of Venezuela in support of humanitarian projects, democracy building, education, non-commercial development projects directly benefiting the Venezuelan people, and environmental protection in Venezuela.
In addition to these general licenses, OFAC can also issue specific licenses to authorize particular transactions that may otherwise be prohibited by the sanctions, as long as those transactions are in the foreign policy interests of the United States. For additional information, please see FAQ 665 and OFAC’s “ Guidance Related to the Provision of Humanitarian Assistance and Support to the Venezuelan People. ”
Released on August 6, 2019
520. Do I need a specific license from OFAC to send U.S.-origin food or medicine to Venezuela?
No, as long as your transaction or other dealing does not involve property or interests in property of a Specially Designated National. That said, you should make sure that your proposed export is authorized by the U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security ("BIS") , which maintains jurisdiction over the export of items to Venezuela. For further guidance regarding the exportation of items to Venezuela, contact BIS by phone at (202) 482-4252.
Released on August 25, 2017
521. I want to provide long-term financing to the Government of Venezuela to help with the exportation or reexportation of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, components, or replacement parts and components for medical devices to Venezuela. Is that allowed?
Yes. General License 4 authorizes all financing and other dealings in new debt related to the exportation or reexportation of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, components, or replacement parts for medical devices, to Venezuela, or to persons in third countries purchasing specifically for resale to Venezuela, provided that the exportation or reexportation is licensed or otherwise authorized by the Department of Commerce. Note, however, that General License 4 does not otherwise authorize any transaction that is prohibited by E.O. 13808 , E.O. 13692 , or any part of 31 C.F.R. Chapter V .
Released on August 25, 2017
522. Other than through the existing general licenses, under what circumstances might U.S. persons be authorized to deal in new debt of greater than 30 or 90 days issued by the Government of Venezuela?
In the Lima Declaration of August 8, 2017, 12 countries across the Americas refused to recognize the Constituent Assembly or the laws it adopts because of its illegitimate nature, while at the same time fully backing the democratically elected IV Venezuelan National Assembly seated on January 5, 2016 (“IV National Assembly”). We stand in solidarity with our friends and allies in the region. If the democratically elected IV National Assembly approved a new debt issuance by the Government of Venezuela that Executive Order (E.O.) 13808 would prohibit U.S. persons from dealing in, the United States would consider using licensing authority to allow U.S. persons to deal in the issuance.
Date Updated: January 09, 2023
Released on August 25, 2017
523. The Venezuela Government International Bond issued on December 29, 2016 (ISIN USP97475AQ39, CUSIP AM1108092) is not included in the Annex to General License 3. Is that intentional? Did OFAC intentionally exclude any other bonds from the Annex?
OFAC intentionally excluded the Venezuela Government International Bond issued on December 29, 2016 (ISIN USP97475AQ39, CUSIP AM1108092) (“the 2036 bond”) from the Annex to General License 3 because available information indicates that the Government of Venezuela is both the bond’s issuer and sole holder. At this time, the 2036 bond is the only bond we have identified and purposely omitted from the Annex to General License 3.
Parties who identify additional bonds that they believe should be added to the Annex to General License 3 should contact OFAC Compliance hotline . with information about the bond (including its ISIN, CUSIP, description, issuance date, maturity date, and prospectus/terms and conditions) and provide their rationale for adding it to the Annex (e.g., a party other than the Government of Venezuela holds the bond). No particular characteristics or circumstances will guarantee a bond’s addition to the Annex to General License 3; OFAC will evaluate each request on a case-by-case basis.
Paragraph (b) of General License 3 (this content is no longer available) authorizes all transactions related to, the provision of financing for, and other dealings in bonds that were issued both (i) prior to August 25, 2017, and (ii) by U.S. person entities owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Government of Venezuela. Consequently, while bonds that meet both of these criteria may not be included in the Annex to General License 3, U.S. persons are nevertheless authorized to deal in these bonds
Released on July 19, 2018
524. I would like to engage in derivatives transactions, including credit default swaps, related to a reference bond that is in the Annex to General License 3. Is that permitted?
Paragraphs (a) and (b) of General License 3 (this content is no longer available) authorize all transactions related to, the provision of financing for, and other dealings in bonds that are either listed in the Annex to General License 3 or that were issued both (i) prior to August 25, 2017, and (ii) by U.S. person entities owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Government of Venezuela (“General License 3 bonds”). Buying, selling, or otherwise dealing in a derivative that references a General License 3 bond is a transaction related to the bond itself. General License 3 therefore authorizes such purchases and sales, as well as related transactions. One corollary to this authorization is that U.S. persons are not authorized to buy, sell, or otherwise deal in derivatives that reference bonds that (i) were issued by the Government of Venezuela prior to August 25, 2017, but (ii) are not General License 3 bonds.
Released on July 19, 2018
527. What does OFAC consider to be “profit” under Subsection 1(a)(iv) of E.O. 13808?
For purposes of Subsection 1(a)(iv) of E.O. 13808 , “profit” is net income after taxes. For a business, this is generally total sales minus total costs and expenses. For example, transactions involving the Government of Venezuela, including PDVSA, related to payments for goods and services, taxes, or royalties are not considered “profit.” Similarly, principal and interest payments related to bonds and promissory notes are not considered “distributions of profit” for purposes of Subsection 1(a)(iv) of E.O. 13808, and so that subsection does not prohibit U.S. persons from making such payments. Restrictions imposed under other subsections of E.O. 13808, however, may still apply. For example, pursuant to Subsection 1(a)(iii), U.S. persons are prohibited from dealing in principal and interest payments related to bonds that were issued by the Government of Venezuela before August 25, 2017 unless U.S. persons are authorized to deal in the relevant bonds under General License 3 (this content is no longer available).
Released on October 3, 2017
547. Can U.S. Persons participate in meetings about restructuring outstanding Venezuelan and PDVSA debt?
U.S. persons are generally prohibited from engaging in transactions or dealings with persons named on OFAC’s SDN List, including dealing with an SDN in the context of efforts to restructure Venezuelan and Petroleos de Venezuela, S.A. (PdVSA) debt.  Provided there is no SDN involvement, Venezuela-related General License 3 authorizes U.S. persons to engage in all transactions related to bonds specified in the Annex to General License 3, including participating in negotiations regarding such bonds. General License 3 does not authorize any transaction by a U.S. person or within the United States that involves the creation or subsequent dealing in new debt of PdVSA or debt otherwise of the Government of Venezuela with a maturity of greater than 90 days or 30 days, respectively, absent a license from OFAC.  OFAC would consider license applications involving any such new debt or equity on a case-by-case basis, and base licensing determinations on the facts and circumstances of the particular application.  As stated in FAQ 522 , the United States government would consider using licensing authority to allow U.S. persons to deal in new debt of the Government of Venezuela approved by the democratically elected IV Venezuelan National Assembly seated on January 5, 2016.
Date Updated: January 09, 2023
Released on July 19, 2018
548. Subsection 1(a)(i) of E.O. 13808 prohibits U.S. persons from dealing in new debt with a maturity of greater than 90 days of PdVSA. For purposes of E.O. 13808, does the term “PdVSA” include all PdVSA subsidiaries?
Yes. For purposes of E.O. 13808 , the prohibition in Subsection 1(a)(i) would apply to PdVSA and extend to all PdVSA subsidiaries, unless authorized by OFAC. Note that General License 2 authorizes certain activities involving specified PdVSA subsidiaries.
Released on November 9, 2017
553. For purposes of E.O. 13808, what is “new debt”?
OFAC considers “new debt” to be debt created on or after August 25, 2017. See FAQ 511 for examples of “debt,” which includes loans and extensions of credit.
OFAC does not consider debt that was created prior to August 25, 2017 to be “new debt” for purposes of E.O. 13808 so long as the terms of the debt instrument (including, for example, the length of the repayment period or any interest rate applied) agreed to by the parties do not change on or after August 25, 2017. Such preexisting debt does not need to conform to the 30- or 90-day tenors imposed under E.O. 13808 , and U.S. persons may collect and accept payment for such debt regardless of whether the relevant segment of the Government of Venezuela, including PdVSA, pays during the agreed-upon payment period.
Released on February 12, 2018
554. For debt created on or after August 25, 2017, are U.S. persons permitted to accept payment from PdVSA or other segments of the Government of Venezuela if payment for a debt is not received within the applicable period specified in E.O. 13808 (90 days for PdVSA, 30 days for other segments of the Government of Venezuela)?
No, absent a specific license or other authorization from OFAC. As explained in FAQ 553 , debt – which includes extensions of credit for sales of goods or services – created on or after August 25, 2017 constitutes “new debt,” and E.O. 13808 prohibits U.S. persons and persons within the United States from engaging in transactions related to, providing financing for, or otherwise dealing in new debt with a maturity of longer than 90 days for PdVSA or 30 days for other segments of the Government of Venezuela. Because receiving payments outside of these specified maturity periods generally constitutes a prohibited dealing in debt, U.S. persons should ensure that payment terms accord with the applicable debt prohibition.
In circumstances where PdVSA or another segment of the Government of Venezuela fails to pay a debt in full within 90 or 30 days, as applicable, U.S. persons must obtain a specific license from OFAC before accepting payment after the expiration of the applicable period.
To mitigate potential harm to U.S. persons who have not received payment related to new debt incurred by PdVSA or another segment of the Government of Venezuela within the applicable maturity period, OFAC will, on a case-by-case basis, grant specific licenses to U.S. persons to deal in the collection or receipt of such payment, provided that: (1) PdVSA or another segment of the Government of Venezuela is in debt to the applicant based on an agreement that complies with applicable sanctions requirements and prohibitions; (2) the debt is “new debt” created before March 14, 2018; (3) the relevant segment of the Government of Venezuela failed to pay its debt within the agreed-upon, authorized payment period; and (4) the transaction is not otherwise prohibited under E.O. 13808, E.O. 13692 , or any part of 31 C.F.R. Chapter V .
License applications involving circumstances that do not meet these criteria will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis with a presumption of denial, with the exception of activity that is in U.S. national security or foreign policy interests, including humanitarian-related transactions, legal services, or personal communication-related services.
Consistent with FAQ 553 , debt created prior to August 25, 2017 – including extensions of credit related to goods or services provided to PdVSA or another segment of the Government of Venezuela – would not constitute “new debt,” provided that the parties do not change the terms of the debt.
Released on February 12, 2018
564. For purposes of Executive Order (E.O.) 13827. Taking Additional Steps to Deal with the Situation in Venezuela" of March 19 2018, are the “petro” and “petro-gold” considered a “digital currency, digital coin, or digital token” that was issued by, for, or on behalf of the Government of Venezuela on or after January 9, 2018?
Answer: Yes.
Released on March 19, 2018
565. For purposes of E.O. 13827 "Taking Additional Steps to Deal with the Situation in Venezuela" of March 19, 2018, is Venezuela’s traditional fiat currency, bolivar fuerte, considered a “digital currency, digital coin, or digital token” that was issued by, for, or on behalf of the Government of Venezuela on or after January 9, 2018?
Answer: No.
Released on March 19, 2018
566. I participated in the pre-sale for a Government of Venezuela-issued “digital currency, digital coin, or digital token” before E.O. 13827 "Taking Additional Steps to Deal with the Situation in Venezuela" of March 19, 2018, became effective. Am I allowed to sell, trade, use, or otherwise deal in such “digital currency, digital coin, or digital token” on or after the sanctions effective date?
Absent authorization from OFAC, U.S. persons are prohibited from engaging in transactions related to, providing financing for, and otherwise dealing in any “digital currency, digital coin, or digital token” that was issued by, for, or on behalf of the Government of Venezuela on or after January 9, 2018. OFAC would consider license applications involving Government of Venezuela-issued “digital currency, digital coin, or digital token” on a case-by-case basis and base licensing determinations on the facts and circumstances of the particular application.
Released on March 19, 2018
595. What does Venezuela-related General License 5X authorize?
The President issued Executive Order (E.O.) 13835 on May 21, 2018. Subsection 1(a)(iii) of E.O. 13835 prohibits U.S. persons from engaging in transactions related to the sale, transfer, assignment, or pledging as collateral by the Government of Venezuela (GOV) of any equity interest in an entity owned 50 percent or more by the GOV. One effect of subsection 1(a)(iii) is to require authorization before U.S. persons may engage in certain transactions regarding any equity interest in an entity owned 50 percent or more by the GOV. Subsequent to the issuance of E.O. 13835, OFAC received inquiries about how and whether subsection 1(a)(iii) of E.O. 13835 could affect the ability to enforce bondholder rights to the CITGO shares serving as collateral for the Petróleos de Venezuela, S.A. (PdVSA) 2020 8.5 percent bond. OFAC issued General License (GL) 5 on July 19, 2018, which removed E.O. 13835 as an obstacle to holders of the PdVSA 2020 8.5 percent bond gaining access to their collateral.
General License 5 was replaced and superseded by General License 5A on October 24, 2019 with a delay in the effectiveness of the authorization in the general license. Since that date, OFAC has extended the delay in effectiveness multiple times. Most recently, OFAC issued General License 5X on June 18, 2026, which further delays the effectiveness of the authorization in GL 5 until August 4, 2026. Between October 24, 2019 and August 4, 2026 (the date the authorization in General License 5X becomes effective), there is no authorization in effect that licenses against subsection 1(a)(iii) of E.O. 13835 applicable to the holders of the PdVSA 2020 8.5 percent bond. As a result, during such period, transactions related to the sale or transfer of CITGO shares in connection with the PdVSA 2020 8.5 percent bond are prohibited, unless specifically authorized by OFAC.
To the extent an agreement may be reached on proposals to restructure or refinance payments due to the holders of the PdVSA 2020 8.5 percent bond, additional licensing requirements may apply. OFAC would encourage parties to apply for a specific license and would have a favorable licensing policy toward such an agreement.
Date Updated: June 18, 2026
Released on January 20, 2022
596. Does E.O. 13835 prohibit me from attaching and executing against assets of the Government of Venezuela, including vessels, properties, or financial assets, if I have a legal judgment against the Government of Venezuela?
No, provided that the attachment does not involve (i) debt owed to the Government of Venezuela (including accounts receivable) that was pledged as collateral after the effective date of E.O. 13835 (per subsection 1(a)(ii) of the E.O.), or (ii) an equity interest in any entity in which the Government of Venezuela has a 50 percent or greater ownership interest (per subsection 1(a)(iii) of the E.O.). OFAC authorization would likely be required for attachment of equity interest in any entity in which the Government of Venezuela has a 50 percent or greater ownership interest. OFAC would consider license applications seeking to attach and execute against such equity interests on a case-by-case basis.
Released on July 19, 2018
628. What is the objective of Executive Order (E.O.) 13850 of November 1, 2018, "Blocking Property of Additional Persons Contributing to the Situation in Venezuela"?
E.O. 13850 is designed to counter rampant corruption within the Government of Venezuela, which continues to exacerbate the economic and humanitarian crises afflicting the Venezuelan people. As we have worked to disrupt the Government of Venezuela’s sources of corrupt patronage, the Maduro regime has sought new means by which to enrich itself at the expense of its people. By issuing this E.O., the U.S. government is acting to prevent the regime and its corrupt associates from further exploiting Venezuela’s people and resources. The E.O. provides a powerful tool to impose costs on those who unjustly benefit from dishonest or fraudulent conduct, illicit activity, and/or deceptive transactions within Venezuela’s gold sector or other identified sectors, or in relation to the Government of Venezuela or its projects or programs.
Released on November 1, 2018
629. Executive order (E.O.) 13850 of November 1, 2018, “Blocking Property of Additional Persons Contributing to the Situation in Venezuela,” authorizes the imposition of sanctions on persons operating in Venezuela’s gold sector. For purposes of this E.O., how will OFAC target those who “operate in the gold sector of the Venezuela economy or any other sector of the Venezuela economy as may be determined by the Secretary of the Treasury in consultation with the Secretary of State”?
OFAC expects to use its discretion to target in particular those who operate corruptly in the gold or other identified sectors of the Venezuela economy, and not those who are operating legitimately in such sectors. This includes, for example, persons engaging in dishonest or fraudulent conduct, illicit activity, or deceptive transactions within Venezuela’s gold sector or other identified Venezuela sectors, with the purpose or effect of misappropriating Venezuelan resources in those sectors for personal, professional, or political gain.
Date Updated: February 02, 2024
Released on November 1, 2018
649. What does Executive Order 13857 of January 25, 2019 "Taking Additional Steps to Address the National Emergency with Respect to Venezuela" do and how does this impact OFAC's Venezuela-related sanctions?
Executive Order 13857 of January 25, 2019 "Taking Additional Steps to Address the National Emergency with Respect to Venezuela" broadens the definition of the term "Government of Venezuela" to include persons that have acted, or have purported to act, on behalf of the Government of Venezuela, including members of the Maduro regime, for purposes of Executive Orders 13692 , 13808 , 13827 , 13835 , and 13850 . All existing Venezuela-related sanctions remain in effect.
Released on January 28, 2019
651. What happened to the Petróleos de Venezuela, S.A. (PdVSA) bonds, or bonds issued by any entity directly or indirectly owned 50 percent or more by PdVSA, that were previously included in the Annex to General License 3?
Bonds issued by PdVSA or any entity in which it owns, directly or indirectly, a 50 percent or greater interest that was previously listed in the Annex to General License 3 (this content is no longer available) (which has been superseded by General License 3B (this content is no longer available)​) are now listed in the Annex to General License 9 (this content is no longer available). All Venezuela-related general licenses are provided on OFAC’s website on the Venezuela-related Sanctions page .
Released on January 31, 2019
652. Is it permissible for mutual funds and exchange traded funds (collectively, “funds”) that are U.S. persons to buy, sell, or otherwise engage in transactions related to debt, equity, or other holdings in an entity that appears on OFAC’s List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons (SDN List), or of an entity owned 50 percent or more, individually or in the aggregate, by an individual or entity on the SDN List?
No. A fund that is a U.S. person may not buy, sell, or otherwise engage in transactions related to debt, equity, or other holdings in blocked persons and must block such holdings, unless authorized by OFAC via general or specific license. A U.S. fund that contains such blocked holdings generally is not itself considered a blocked entity, and U.S. persons may continue to invest in the fund and the fund may continue to operate. The fund may divest itself of blocked holdings only with OFAC authorization.
Released on January 31, 2019
653. I am the manager of a Synthetic Exchange Traded Fund (ETF), which tracks a basket of debt, equity or other holdings in order to provide a return approximating the returns on that basket, but which does not actually hold the underlying debt, equity, or other holdings contained in the basket. May I continue to offer such funds, and may U.S. persons trade in shares of these funds, if the underlying basket being tracked contains holdings in an entity or entities that appear on OFAC’s List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons (SDN List), or of an entity owned 50 percent or more, individually or in the aggregate, by an individual or entity on the SDN List?
Yes, so long as the underlying basket being tracked includes less than a predominant share by value of debt, equity, or other holdings in blocked persons. U.S. and non-U.S. persons may continue to constitute, offer, and trade in funds that include only synthetic risk in debt, equity, or other holdings in blocked persons, provided the underlying basket being tracked includes less than a predominant share by value of debt, equity, or other holdings in blocked persons.
Released on January 31, 2019
654. With regard to Venezuela-related General License 11, “Authorizing Certain Activities Necessary to Maintenance or Wind Down of Operations or Existing Contracts with Petróleos de Venezuela, S.A.,” are U.S. financial institutions required to reject funds transfers involving both Petróleos de Venezuela, S.A. (PdVSA) or entities owned, directly or indirectly, 50 percent or more by PdVSA, and a non-U.S. entity located in a country other than the United States or Venezuela?
General License 11 authorizes, with certain exceptions, U.S. person employees of non-U.S. entities located in a country other than the United States or Venezuela to engage in transactions and activities prohibited by Executive Order 13850 that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the maintenance or wind down of operations, contracts, or other agreements involving PdVSA or entities owned, directly or indirectly, 50 percent or more by PdVSA that were in effect prior to January 28, 2019. The authorization is valid through 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on March 29, 2019. In accordance with paragraph (b) of General License 11, and for purposes of activities authorized under General License 11 only, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to reject, rather than block, funds transfers that involve both PdVSA or any entity owned, directly or indirectly, 50 percent or more by PdVSA and a non-U.S. entity located in a country other than the United States or Venezuela, provided that: (i) the funds transfers originate and terminate outside the United States; (ii) the originator and the beneficiary are non-U.S. persons; (iii) the funds are not destined for a blocked account on the books of a U.S. person; and (iv) the funds transfers otherwise are effected in accordance with paragraph (c) of General License 11. U.S. financial institutions are not required to block funds transfers meeting the conditions in paragraph (b) of General License 11, but they are prohibited from processing such transactions.
Released on January 31, 2019
656. Can U.S. persons in Venezuela purchase gasoline or other refined petroleum products from Petróleos de Venezuela, S.A. (PdVSA) or any entity in which it owns, directly or indirectly, a 50 percent or greater interest?
Yes. Venezuela-related General License 10 authorizes U.S. persons in Venezuela to purchase refined petroleum products, including gasoline, for personal, commercial, or humanitarian uses from PdVSA, or any entity in which it owns, directly or indirectly, a 50 percent or greater interest. General License 10 authorizes, among other things, purchases of refined petroleum products by U.S. commercial airlines providing passenger or cargo services in Venezuela for the purposes of fueling aircraft in Venezuela. General License 10 also would authorize purchase for use to power a means of conveyance or a household good (such as a generator) in Venezuela. General License 10, however, does not authorize U.S. persons to purchase refined petroleum products in Venezuela from PdVSA for purposes of executing a commercial transaction to resell, transfer, export, or reexport such refined petroleum products.
Released on January 31, 2019
658. Can U.S. persons purchase, or engage in other transactions including swaps and non-cash transactions involving the purchase or exchange of, petroleum and petroleum products, if Petróleos de Venezuela, S.A. (PdVSA) or any entity in which it owns, directly or indirectly, a 50 percent or greater interest is not directly involved in the transaction?
After 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time, April 28, 2019, as described in Venezuela-related General License 7 and General License 12, any transactions (including swaps and non-cash transactions) involving the purchase or exchange of petroleum or petroleum products in which PdVSA or any entity in which it owns, directly or indirectly, a 50 percent or greater interest has a direct or indirect interest will be prohibited for U.S. persons absent authorization from OFAC (see also General License 10 and FAQ 656​ ). Prior to April 28, 2019, any funds or tangible proceeds of a swap or non-cash agreement owed to PdVSA or any entity in which it owns, directly or indirectly, a 50 percent or greater interest as a result of such purchases or exchanges must be blocked, and, in the case of blocked funds, must be placed into a blocked interest-bearing account in the United States. In the case of blocked non-cash proceeds, please reach out to OFAC for further guidance.
Released on January 31, 2019
659. Does Venezuela-related General License 12 authorize U.S. persons to export goods, services, and technology from the United States to Petróleos de Venezuela, S.A. (PdVSA) or any entity in which it owns, directly or indirectly, a 50 percent or greater interest during the wind-down period?
General License 12​ authorizes, until 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time, February 27, 2019, all transactions and activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the wind down of operations, contracts, or other agreements that were in effect prior to January 28, 2019. This authorization includes the importation into, or the exportation from, the United States of goods, services, or technology (other than the exportation of diluents) involving PdVSA or any entity in which it owns, directly or indirectly, a 50 percent or greater interest (other than ALBA de Nicaragua (ALBANISA) or any entity in which ALBANISA owns, directly or indirectly, a 50 percent or greater interest)
Released on January 31, 2019
661. What does General License 9H authorize with respect to Petróleos de Venezuela, S.A. (PdVSA) debt and equity and what are the implications for U.S. and non-U.S. persons?
General License (GL) 9H authorizes U.S. persons to engage in all transactions prohibited by subsection 1(a)(iii) of Executive Order (E.O.) 13808 or by E.O. 13850 , each as amended by E.O. 13857 , or by E.O. 13884 , as collectively incorporated into the Venezuela Sanctions Regulations, 31 CFR part 591 (the VSR), that are ordinarily incident and necessary to dealings in any debt of, or equity in, PdVSA, or any entity directly or indirectly owned 50 percent or more by PdVSA, that was issued prior to August 25, 2017 (together, "PdVSA Securities"). This includes bonds issued by PDV Holding, Inc. and CITGO Holding, Inc., or any of their subsidiaries. The authorization in GL 9H includes, for example, engaging in transactions related to the receipt and processing of interest or principal payments, and acting as a custodian for U.S. and non-U.S. persons' holdings in PdVSA Securities. GL 9H also authorizes divestment of the PdVSA Securities, including, on or after October 18, 2023, to other U.S. persons.
Paragraph (c) of GL 9H authorizes all transactions prohibited by subsection 1(a)(iii) of E.O. 13808 or by E.O. 13850, each as amended by E.O. 13857, or by E.O. 13884, that are ordinarily incident and necessary to facilitating, clearing, and settling trades of holdings in PdVSA Securities, provided such trades were placed prior to 4:00 p.m. eastern standard time on January 28, 2019; this authorization aims to ensure that trades that were placed prior to the imposition of blocking sanctions on PdVSA are allowed to settle in the ordinary course.
Date Updated: October 18, 2023
Released on May 12, 2020
662. What does General License 3I authorize with respect to Government of Venezuela debt, and what are the implications for U.S. and non-U.S. persons?
General License 3I (GL 3I) authorizes U.S. persons to engage in all transactions related to, the provision of financing for, and other dealings in the bonds specified in the Annex to GL 3I (GL 3I Bonds) that would be prohibited by subsection 1(a)(iii) of Executive Order (E.O.) 13808 or by E.O. 13850 , each as amended by E.O. 13857 , or by E.O. 13884 , as collectively incorporated into the Venezuela Sanctions Regulations, 31 CFR part 591 (the VSR). The authorization in GL 3I includes, for example, engaging in transactions related to the receipt and processing of interest or principal payments, and acting as a custodian for U.S. and non-U.S. persons' holdings in GL 3I Bonds. GL 3I also authorizes divestment of the GL 3I Bonds, including, on or after October 18, 2023, to other U.S. persons.
Paragraph (b) of GL 3I authorizes all transactions prohibited by subsection 1(a)(iii) of E.O. 13808 or by E.O. 13850, each as amended by E.O. 13857, or by E.O. 13884, that are ordinarily incident and necessary to facilitating, clearing, and settling trades of holdings in the GL 3I Bonds, provided such trades were placed prior to 4:00 p.m. eastern standard time on February 1, 2019; this authorization aims to ensure that trades that were placed prior to February 1, 2019, are allowed to settle in the ordinary course.
Paragraph (d) of GL 3I authorizes all transactions related to, the provision of financing for, and other dealings in bonds that were issued both (i) prior to August 25, 2017 (the effective date of E.O. 13808), and (ii) by U.S. person entities owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Government of Venezuela, other than PDV Holding, Inc., CITGO Holding, Inc., and any of their subsidiaries, that would be prohibited by E.O. 13808 or E.O. 13850, each as amended, or by E.O. 13884.
Date Updated: October 18, 2023
Released on May 12, 2020
663. Does the Secretary of the Treasury’s determination on March 22, 2019, that persons operating in the financial sector of the Venezuelan economy may be subject to sanctions pursuant to Executive Order 13850, as amended, mean that all Venezuelan financial institutions have been sanctioned by OFAC as of March 22, 2019, and are now blocked persons?
No. Only those persons listed on OFAC’s SDN List, and entities that they own, directly or indirectly, 50 percent or more of, are blocked persons and subject to sanctions pursuant to E.O. 13580 , as amended.
Released on March 22, 2019
664. Can U.S. financial institutions process transactions and maintain correspondent accounts in connection with activities authorized under Venezuela General Licenses 4A, 15, 16, 17, and 18?
U.S. financial institutions and U.S. registered money transmitters are authorized to process transactions involving Banco de Venezuela, S.A. Banco Universal (Banco de Venezuela) or Banco Bicentenario del Pueblo, de la Clase Obrera, Mujer y Comunas, Banco Universal C.A. (Banco Bicentenario del Pueblo) for purposes of Venezuela General Licenses 4A, 15, 16, and 17, Banco Prodem S.A. for purposes of General License 17, and Integracion Administradora de Fondos de Ahorro Previsional, S.A. for purposes of General License 18​, in each case so long as the underlying transaction or activity is authorized under the relevant general license.
U.S. financial institutions that maintain correspondent accounts for Banco de Venezuela or Banco Bicentenario del Pueblo for purposes of General Licenses 4A, 15, 16, and 17, Banco Prodem S.A. for purposes of General License 17, and Integracion Administradora de Fondos de Ahorro Previsional, S.A. for purposes of General License 18 may debit or credit such accounts for transactions consistent with the activity authorized in the relevant general license.
Released on March 22, 2019
665. Will the designation of the Government of Venezuela restrict the ability of U.S. persons to support humanitarian efforts, including to engage in or facilitate the provision of humanitarian assistance or non-commercial, personal remittances to Venezuela?
No. OFAC is committed to ensuring that humanitarian assistance and non-commercial, personal remittances can flow to the people of Venezuela. To that end, concurrent with the blocking of the Government of Venezuela, OFAC has issued amendments to current Venezuela-related general licenses and issued new general licenses to ensure that U.S. persons may continue to engage in and facilitate non-commercial, personal remittances, and the export or reexport of humanitarian items (agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, and software updates for medical devices) to Venezuela. Likewise, E.O. 13884 does not prohibit transactions involving the Government of Venezuela that relate to the provision of articles such as food, clothing, and medicine intended to be used to relieve human suffering. For additional information, please see FAQ 519 and OFAC’s “Guidance Related to the Provision of Humanitarian Assistance and Support to the Venezuelan People.”
OFAC also issued amended General License 20A to authorize official activities of certain international organizations such as the United Nations (including its Programmes and Funds, and its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations) and the International Committee of the Red Cross, among others, to engage in transactions involving Banco Central de Venezuela, or involving other Government of Venezuela persons to the extent the transactions are subject to U.S. jurisdiction.
Sanctions do not prohibit U.S. persons from engaging in exports or reexports of items to Venezuela, provided that the transactions do not involve sanctioned individuals or entities or certain prohibited activity. Those involved in exports or reexports to Venezuela, including exports or reexports related to activity authorized by OFAC, should also consult the Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security to ensure eligibility of exportation or reexportation under its authorities.
If individuals, companies, or financial institutions have questions about engaging in or processing transactions related to these authorizations, they can contact OFAC’s OFAC Compliance hotline .
Released on August 6, 2019
679. Executive Order (E.O.) 13884 of August 5, 2019, “Blocking Property of the Government of Venezuela,” blocks all property and interests in property of the Government of Venezuela. What does this mean for the IV Venezuelan National Assembly seated on January 5, 2016 (“IV National Assembly”)?
The United States stands with the Venezuelan people and the IV National Assembly in opposition to the Maduro regime. On January 09, 2023, OFAC issued Venezuela-related General License 31B authorizing all transactions involving the IV National Assembly, its Delegated Commission, any entity established by, or under the direction of, the IV National Assembly to exercise its mandate (“IV National Assembly Entity”), or involving any person appointed or designated by, or whose appointment or designation is retained by, the IV National Assembly, its Delegated Commission, or a IV National Assembly Entity, to act on behalf of the Government of Venezuela, including their respective members and staff, that are otherwise prohibited by E.O. 13884 . The authorization also covers transactions prohibited by E.O. 13850 , as amended, with respect to any person appointed or designated by, or whose appointment or designation is retained by, the IV National Assembly, its Delegated Commission, or a IV National Assembly Entity to the board of directors (including any ad hoc board of directors) or as an executive officer of a Government of Venezuela entity (including entities owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Government of Venezuela).
Effective January 09, 2023, General License 31B replaced and superseded General License 31A in its entirety.
Date Updated: January 09, 2023
Released on January 4, 2021
680. Does the blocking of the Government of Venezuela impact the ability of U.S. persons to transact with the Government of Venezuela, or persons in which the Government of Venezuela owns, directly or indirectly, a 50 percent or greater interest?
Yes. Unless exempt or authorized by OFAC, all property and interests in property of persons meeting the definition of the Government of Venezuela (see section 6(d) of E.O. 13884​ of August 5, 2019) that are in, or come within, the United States or the possession or control of a United States person are blocked, pursuant to E.O. 13884. The term “Government of Venezuela,” as defined in E.O. 13884 , includes the state and Government of Venezuela, any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including the Central Bank of Venezuela and Petroleos de Venezuela, S.A. (PdVSA), any person owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the foregoing, and any person who has acted or purported to act directly or indirectly for or on behalf of, any of the foregoing, including as a member of the Maduro regime.
OFAC has issued several General Licenses (GLs) that provide authorization for categories of persons blocked by E.O. 13884. GL 34A authorizes transactions with certain Government of Venezuela individuals, including United States citizens; permanent resident aliens of the United States; individuals who have a valid U.S. immigrant or nonimmigrant visa, other than individuals in the United States as part of Venezuela’s mission to the United Nations; former employees and contractors of the Government of Venezuela; and current employees and contractors of the Government of Venezuela who provide health or education services in Venezuela, including at hospitals, schools, and universities. In addition, GL 22 authorizes certain transactions related to Venezuela’s mission to the United Nations, and GL 31B provides authorization related to the IV Venezuelan National Assembly seated on January 5, 2016 (“IV National Assembly”). Please see FAQ 679 regarding the scope of GL 31B . Without authorization from OFAC, U.S. persons are generally prohibited from engaging in transactions with the Government of Venezuela, or persons in which the Government of Venezuela owns, directly or indirectly, a 50 percent or greater interest. U.S. persons are not prohibited from engaging in transactions involving the country or people of Venezuela, provided blocked persons or any conduct prohibited by any other Executive order imposing sanctions measures related to the situation in Venezuela, are not involved.
Please note that persons meeting the definition of Government of Venezuela and persons that are owned, directly or indirectly, 50 percent or more by the Government of Venezuela are blocked pursuant to E.O. 13884, regardless of whether the person appears on the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons list (SDN List), unless exempt or authorized by OFAC.
As a general matter, OFAC expects financial institutions to conduct due diligence on their own direct customers (including, for example, their ownership structure) to confirm that those customers are not persons whose property and interests in property are blocked. For other types of transactions where a financial institution is acting solely as an intermediary and fails to block transactions involving a sanctions target, OFAC will consider the totality of the circumstances surrounding the bank’s processing of the transaction to determine what, if any, regulatory response is appropriate.
Date Updated: January 09, 2023
Released on November 5, 2019
681. Does General License 28 extend the authorization of wind-down periods that have expired for Petroleos de Venezuela, S.A. (PdVSA), Banco Central de Venezuela (BCV), or other blocked Government of Venezuela persons?
No. General License 28, “Authorizing Certain Activities Necessary to the Wind Down of Operations or Existing Contracts Involving the Government of Venezuela,” only authorizes dealings with persons blocked solely pursuant to E.O. of August 5, 2019; General License 28 does not authorize dealings with persons blocked under E.O.s 13692 or 13850, as amended, or any activities or transactions prohibited under E.O.s 13808, 13827, or 13835, each as amended.
General licenses authorizing wind-down periods for previously designated Government of Venezuela entities (e.g., General License 11 pertaining to PdVSA and General License 19 pertaining to BCV) have expired, and all transactions and activities with such designated persons should have been wound down by the expiration of the applicable general license, absent specific authorization from OFAC.
For clarity on the scope of each general license (including its expiration and the Executive orders or prohibitions the general license authorizes against), please refer to the header of each general license, relevant notes, and any specified expiration date.
Released on August 6, 2019
803. What types of activity does General License 35 authorize?
U.S. persons are authorized to engage in certain administrative transactions with the Government of Venezuela that are prohibited by E.O. 13884 of August 5, 2019, where such transactions are necessary and ordinarily incident to such persons’ day-to-day operations. General License 35 authorizes U.S. persons to pay taxes, fees, and import duties to the Government of Venezuela, and to purchase or receive permits, licenses, registrations, certifications, and public utility services from the Government of Venezuela, so long as these transactions are necessary and ordinarily incident to such persons’ day-to-day operations.
U.S. persons should remain cautious when engaging in authorized activity with blocked persons to ensure all criteria for use of the general license are met. The illegitimate former Maduro regime has a long history of corruption, and we encourage U.S. persons who rely on the authorization in General License 35 to exercise appropriate due diligence to ensure compliance with the terms of the authorization. The U.S. government will continue to target corruption by the illegitimate former Maduro regime. As with any general or specific license, OFAC is prepared to revoke this authorization if appropriate to support U.S. foreign policy and national security priorities.
Released on November 5, 2019
808. Do I need a specific license from OFAC to file a suit in U.S. court against a person designated or blocked pursuant to Venezuela-related sanctions?  Does a U.S. court, or its personnel, need a specific license from OFAC to hear such a case?
No.  A specific license from OFAC is not required to initiate or continue U.S. legal proceedings against a person designated or blocked pursuant to the Venezuela Sanctions Regulations, 31 CFR part 591 (VSR), or for a U.S. court, or its personnel, to hear such a case.  Similarly, creditors may file for writs of attachment without the need for OFAC authorization for matters involving property blocked under the VSR.
However, a specific license from OFAC is required for the entry into a settlement agreement, or for the enforcement of any lien, judgment, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to the VSR.
For additional information, see 31 CFR §§ 591.309, 591.310, 591.407 and 591.506.
With respect to the specific facts and circumstances in Crystallex Int’l Corp. v. Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, 17-mc-00151, before the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware, please see Frequently Asked Question (FAQ) 1123 .  For information on general licenses that may authorize certain settlement negotiations involving persons designated or blocked pursuant to the VSR, please see OFAC FAQs 1124 and 1125 .
Date Updated: May 01, 2023
Released on December 9, 2019
817. What is the significance of OFAC’s designations of Rosneft Trading S.A. and TNK Trading International S.A.? Do the E.O. 13850 blocking sanctions on Rosneft Trading S.A. and TNK Trading International S.A. apply to their corporate parent and their affiliates?
On February 18, 2020, OFAC designated Rosneft Trading S.A. pursuant to E.O. 13850 for operating in the oil sector of the Venezuelan economy. Likewise, on March 12, 2020, OFAC designated TNK Trading International S.A. pursuant to E.O. 13850 for operating in the oil sector of the Venezuelan economy.
General License 36A authorizes U.S. persons to engage in certain activities prohibited by E.O. 13850 necessary for the wind down of transactions involving Rosneft Trading S.A. or TNK Trading International S.A., or any entity in which Rosneft Trading S.A. or TNK Trading International S.A. owns, directly or indirectly, a 50 percent or greater interest, through 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time, May 20, 2020. After the expiration of this authorization, unless exempt or authorized by OFAC, U.S. persons will be prohibited from engaging in transactions with Rosneft Trading S.A. or TNK Trading International S.A., or any entity in which Rosneft Trading, S.A. or TNK Trading International S.A. owns, directly or indirectly, a 50 percent or greater interest, and must block property or interests in property of Rosneft Trading S.A. and TNK Trading International S.A. that are in, or come within, the United States, or the possession or control of a U.S. person. As Rosneft Trading S.A. and TNK Trading International S.A. are also identified on the Sectoral Sanctions Identifications List (SSI List) pursuant to Directives 2 and 4 to E.O. 13662 under the Ukraine-/Russia-related sanctions program, those winding down transactions with Rosneft Trading S.A. or TNK Trading International S.A. should ensure that all activities comply with any applicable Directive 2 and 4 prohibitions, because General License 36A only authorizes certain activities necessary to the wind down of transactions prohibited by E.O. 13850.
The E.O. 13850 blocking sanctions apply only to Rosneft Trading S.A. and TNK Trading International S.A., or any entity in which Rosneft Trading S.A. or TNK Trading International S.A. owns, directly or indirectly, a 50 percent or greater interest. Blocking sanctions do not apply to these entities’ ultimate parent, Rosneft Oil Company. Similarly, blocking sanctions do not apply to Rosneft Oil Company or other subsidiaries or affiliates, provided that such entities are not owned 50 percent or more in the aggregate by one or more blocked persons or otherwise explicitly designated or identified by OFAC.
U.S. persons, therefore, are not prohibited under E.O. 13850 from dealing with Rosneft Oil Company, its non-blocked subsidiaries, or non-blocked affiliates to the extent the proposed dealings do not involve any blocked persons or any other activities prohibited pursuant to any OFAC sanctions authorities. As Rosneft Oil Company, Rosneft Trading S.A., and TNK Trading International S.A. have been listed on the SSI List since July 2014, July 2015, and March 2020 respectively, they are subject to Ukraine-/Russia-related Directives 2 and 4. U.S. persons should be mindful of the relevant Ukraine-/Russia-related prohibitions that would be applicable as a result of dealings with both Rosneft Oil Company, Rosneft Trading S.A., and TNK Trading International S.A. See, generally,FAQs  370-373 , 391-396 , 405-410 , 412-421 , and 536-538 for prohibitions on U.S. persons dealing with entities listed on the SSI List. See alsoFAQs 398 and 400 for information regarding dealings with blocked persons representing non-blocked entities.
Released on March 12, 2020
818. Is there a wind-down period for transactions involving Rosneft Trading S.A. or TNK Trading International S.A.?
OFAC issued General License(GL) 36A, which authorizes U.S. persons to engage in certain activities prohibited by E.O. 13850​ necessary for the wind down of transactions involving Rosneft Trading S.A. or TNK Trading International S.A., or any entity in which Rosneft Trading S.A. or TNK Trading International S.A., owns, directly or indirectly, a 50 percent or greater interest, through 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time, May 20, 2020 (a prior version of this GL, GL 36, was issued concurrently with the designation of Rosneft Trading S.A. and authorized certain wind-down activities as well). After the expiration of this authorization, unless exempt or authorized by OFAC, U.S. persons will be prohibited from engaging in transactions with Rosneft Trading S.A. or TNK Trading International S.A., or any entity in which Rosneft Trading S.A. or TNK Trading International S.A. owns, directly or indirectly, a 50 percent or greater interest, and must block property or interests in property of Rosneft Trading S.A. and TNK Trading International S.A. that are in, or come within, the United States, or the possession or control of a U.S. person.
Non-U.S. persons may wind down transactions with Rosneft Trading S.A. or TNK Trading International S.A. without exposure to sanctions under E.O. 13850, provided that such wind-down activity is: (i) consistent with General License 36A; and (ii) completed prior to 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time, May 20, 2020. Entering into new business involving Rosneft Trading S.A. or TNK Trading International S.A. will not be considered wind-down activity. Non-U.S. persons unable to wind down activities with Rosneft Trading S.A. or TNK Trading International S.A. before 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time, May 20, 2020, may seek guidance from OFAC.
Released on March 12, 2020
834. What does General License 37 authorize?
On June 18, 2020, OFAC designated pursuant to E.O. 13850 , among other entities and individuals, two entities for operating in the oil sector of the Venezuelan economy and identified two vessels owned by these entities as blocked property. Concurrent with this action, OFAC issued General License (GL) 37​, which authorizes U.S. persons to engage in transactions and activities prohibited by E.O. 13850, as amended by E.O. 13857​ and incorporated into the Venezuela Sanctions Regulations, that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the wind down of transactions involving the blocked persons or vessels listed in paragraph (b) of GL 37 through 12:01 am eastern daylight time, July 21, 2020.
The wind-down authorization in GL 37 includes, for example, completion of ongoing voyages, including discharge of cargo aboard such vessels as of June 18, 2020; docking or anchoring of the vessels at third-country, non-sanctioned ports; transactions related to the safety and maintenance of the vessels, such as entering into contracts and paying for insurance coverage, flagging, and safety and compliance inspections; and transactions related to the health and safety of any crew, including the provision and processing of wages or other employee benefits, or other provision of crewing services.
After the expiration of this authorization U.S. persons will be prohibited from engaging in all transactions with the persons or vessels listed in paragraph (b) of GL 37 that are not exempt or authorized by OFAC. U.S. persons unable to wind down transactions with the persons or vessels listed in paragraph (b) of GL 37 before 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time, July 21, 2020, are encouraged to seek guidance from OFAC.
Non-U.S. persons may wind down transactions with the persons or vessels listed in paragraph (b) of GL 37 without exposure to sanctions under E.O. 13850, provided that such wind-down activity is consistent with GL 37. Entering into new contracts involving the persons or vessels listed in paragraph (b) of GL 37 is not authorized under GL 37, unless such contracts are for wind-down activity authorized in paragraph (a). Non-U.S. persons unable to wind down transactions with the persons or vessels listed in paragraph (b) of GL 37 before 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time, July 21, 2020, are encouraged to seek guidance from OFAC.
Released on June 18, 2020
854. What does General License 38 authorize?
On November 30, 2020, OFAC designated CEIEC pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 13692 for its role in undermining democracy in Venezuela.  Concurrent with this action, OFAC issued Venezuela General License (GL) 38 (“Authorizing the Wind Down of Transactions Involving CEIEC”).  GL 38 authorizes U.S. persons to engage in all transactions and activities prohibited by E.O. 13692 that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the wind down of transactions and activities involving CEIEC, or any entity in which CEIEC owns, directly or indirectly, a 50 percent or greater interest (collectively, Blocked CEIEC Entities), through 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time, January 14 , 2021.
After the expiration of this authorization, unless exempt or authorized by OFAC, U.S. persons will be prohibited from engaging in transactions with the Blocked CEIEC Entities, and must block property or interests in property of such entities that are in, or come within, the United States, or the possession or control of a U.S. person.
Non-U.S. persons may wind down transactions and activities with the Blocked CEIEC Entities without exposure to sanctions under E.O. 13692, provided that such wind-down activity is: (i) consistent with GL 38; and (ii) completed prior to 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time, January 14, 2021.  Entering into new business involving the Blocked CEIEC Entities will not be considered wind-down activity.  Non-U.S. persons unable to wind down activities with the Blocked CEIEC Entities before 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time, January 14, 2021, may seek guidance from OFAC.
Released on November 30, 2020
914. Do non-U.S. persons risk exposure to U.S. sanctions for engaging in transactions and activities that would be authorized for U.S. persons pursuant to Venezuela General License (GL) 40C?
No. Non-U.S. persons would not risk exposure under U.S. sanctions for engaging in activities or facilitating transactions or payments for such activities that would be authorized for U.S. persons pursuant to Venezuela GL 40C .
Released on July 12, 2021
915. For purposes of Venezuela General License (GL) 40C, what is liquefied petroleum gas?
For purposes of Venezuela GL 40C , the term liquefied petroleum gas refers to the definition provided by the U.S. Energy Information Administration – a group of hydrocarbon gases, primarily propane, normal butane, and isobutane, derived from crude oil refining or natural gas processing. These gases may be marketed individually or mixed. They can be liquefied through pressurization (without requiring cryogenic refrigeration) for convenience of transportation or storage. The definition excludes ethane and olefins.
Released on July 12, 2021
933. Are the authorizations in paragraph (a) of Venezuela-related General Licenses 7C and 20B, respectively, expired?
No.  The authorizations in paragraph (a) of Venezuela-related General Licenses (GLs) 7C (“Authorizing Certain Activities Involving PDV Holding, Inc. and CITGO Holding, Inc.”) and 20B (“Authorizing Official Activities of Certain International Organizations Involving the Government of Venezuela”), respectively, have not expired and remain in effect.  The activities described in paragraph (a) of GLs 7C and 20B, respectively, are authorized for an 18-month period, which renews automatically for an additional 18 months on the first day of each month, unless the respective GL is modified or revoked.
In the case of GL 7C, the authorization in paragraph (b), which relates to the purchase and importation of petroleum and petroleum products from Petróleos de Venezuela, S.A., expired on April 28, 2019.  The authorization in GL 7C paragraph (b) does not automatically renew and is no longer in effect.
Released on October 1, 2021
1123. In Crystallex Int’l Corp. v. Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, 17-mc-00151 (D. Del.), the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware has entered a Sale Procedures Order with respect to certain shares in PDV Holding (PDVH) to satisfy a U.S. district court judgment confirming an arbitral award against Venezuela.  May persons participate in or comply with steps relating to a judicial sale of such shares?
OFAC will not take enforcement action against any individuals or entities for participating in, facilitating, or complying with the prefatory steps set out in the court’s Sale Procedures Order, or for engaging in transactions that are ordinarily incident and necessary to participating in, facilitating, or complying with such steps (such as serving as potential or actual credit counterparties).  See also General License 42 and OFAC Frequently Asked Question (FAQ) 1125 .  As recognized by the judge in the Crystallex case, an additional license will be required before any sale is executed.  As is standard for OFAC’s process before providing a license for the disposition of blocked property, the United States Government will engage in due diligence about the identity of a potential purchaser and will consider relevant details of the proposed transaction.  Before a potential purchaser has been identified, it would be premature to issue any such license or express a definitive view on the issuance of a specific license in a future scenario.  OFAC nevertheless intends to implement a favorable licensing policy toward such license applications in connection with the execution of a sale as contemplated in the Sale Procedures Order.  As with all OFAC licenses and statements of licensing policy, this licensing policy would be without prejudice to reconsideration if U.S. foreign policy and national security interests materially change.  In making these licensing determinations, OFAC is committed to fair and equivalent treatment of potential creditors.
This non-enforcement posture applies to OFAC sanctions only and does not relieve persons of obligations to comply with any other applicable regulatory requirements, reviews, or approvals that may be necessary to finalize any sale.
Released on May 1, 2023
1124. I am a party seeking to enforce bondholder rights to the shares of CITGO Holding serving as collateral for the Petróleos de Venezuela, S.A. (PdVSA) 2020 8.5 percent bond, pending the outcome of ongoing litigation.  How can I preserve or enforce my bondholder rights consistent with the Venezuela Sanctions Regulations, 31 CFR part 591 (VSR)?
OFAC will not take enforcement action against any person for taking steps to preserve the ability to enforce bondholder rights to the CITGO shares serving as collateral for the PdVSA 2020 8.5 percent bond (see also OFAC Frequently Asked Question (FAQ) 1123 ; General License 42 and OFAC FAQ 1125 ).  This non-enforcement policy governs OFAC sanctions only and does not relieve persons of obligations to comply with any other applicable regulatory requirements, reviews, or approvals that may be necessary to finalize any sale.  As noted in FAQ 1125 , parties that have negotiated a settlement agreement pursuant to General License 42 will still need to seek a specific license for entry into that agreement.
Released on May 1, 2023
1125. I am a creditor of the Government of Venezuela, Petróleos de Venezuela, S.A. (PdVSA), or a PdVSA subsidiary.  Do I need an OFAC license to negotiate the settlement of claims related to assets of the Government of Venezuela or PdVSA?
Venezuela General License (GL) 42 generally authorizes transactions prohibited by the Venezuela Sanctions Regulations, 31 CFR part 591 (VSR), that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the negotiation of settlement agreements with the IV National Assembly, its Delegated Commission, an IV National Assembly Entity, or a person appointed or designated by, or whose appointment or designation is retained by, an IV National Assembly Entity relating to any debt of the Government of Venezuela, PdVSA, or any entity in which PdVSA owns, directly or indirectly, a 50 percent or greater interest (a "PdVSA Subsidiary").
For the purposes of GL 42, the term “IV National Assembly” means the IV Venezuelan National Assembly seated on January 5, 2016; GL 42 does not authorize transactions involving the Venezuelan National Constituent Assembly convened by Nicolas Maduro or the National Assembly seated on January 5, 2021.  The term “IV National Assembly Entity” includes any entity established by, or under the direction of, the IV National Assembly to exercise its mandate, including persons appointed or designated by, or whose appointment or designation is retained by, an IV National Assembly Entity to the board of directors (including any ad hoc boards of directors), or as an executive officer of a Government of Venezuela entity (including entities owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Government of Venezuela).  Settlement agreements relating to debt include settlement agreements relating to bonds, promissory notes, and other receivables of the Government of Venezuela, PdVSA, or a PdVSA Subsidiary.
GL 42 does not authorize the entry into settlement agreements, contingent or otherwise.  Parties that have negotiated a settlement agreement pursuant to GL 42 will need seek a specific license for entry into that agreement.  OFAC intends to implement a favorable licensing policy for license applications in connection with the negotiation of a settlement agreement, but as with all OFAC licenses and statements of licensing policy, specific licenses will only be granted after due diligence as to the parties and transaction, and this licensing policy would be without prejudice to reconsideration if U.S. foreign policy and national security interests materially change and may be revoked or modified at any time.  GL 42 also does not authorize any transactions, including negotiation of settlement agreements, with persons blocked pursuant to the VSR other than those blocked persons enumerated in GL 42, unless separately authorized.
Released on May 1, 2023
1136. Can U.S. persons purchase bonds issued by the Government of Venezuela or Petróleos de Venezuela, S.A. (PdVSA) prior to August 25, 2017 on the secondary market?
Yes.  On October 18, 2023, OFAC issued amended General Licenses (GLs) 3I and 9H , to remove the restriction that any divestment by U.S. persons of holdings in GL 3I Bonds (as defined in GL 3I and FAQ 662 ) or PdVSA Securities (as defined in GL 9H and FAQ 661 ) must be to non-U.S. persons.
GL 3I replaces and supersedes in its entirety GL 3H, which did not authorize U.S. persons to purchase or invest in, or to facilitate the purchase of or investment in, directly or indirectly, the bonds specified in the Annex to GL 3H, with certain exceptions.  Under GL 3I, U.S. persons are no longer subject to the restriction that any divestment of holdings in GL 3I Bonds must be to non-U.S. persons.  For more information on GL 3I, please see FAQ 662.
GL 9H replaces and supersedes in its entirety GL 9G, which did not authorize U.S. persons to purchase or invest in, or to facilitate the purchase of or investment in, directly or indirectly, PdVSA Securities, with certain exceptions.  Under GL 9H, U.S. persons are no longer subject to the restriction that any divestment of holdings in PdVSA Securities must be to non-U.S. persons.
All sanctions related to the primary bond market remain in place.
For more information on GL 9H, please see FAQ 661.
Released on October 18, 2023
1137. For purposes of General License (GL) 45B , “Authorizing Certain Repatriation Transactions Involving Consorcio Venezolano de Industrias Aeronáuticas y Servicios Aéreos, S.A.,” what countries are included in the “Western Hemisphere”?
For the purposes of GL 45B, OFAC considers the term “Western Hemisphere” to mean those countries and areas identified by the Department of State on its website as comprising the Western Hemisphere.  Please see:   Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs - United States Department of State.
Date updated: March 01, 2024
Released on October 18, 2023
1141. Does Venezuela General License (GL) 45B authorize U.S. persons to provide certain services, including refueling services, repair, and maintenance, to blocked Conviasa aircraft that are carrying out flights for the exclusive purpose of repatriating Venezuelan nationals from a third country in the Western Hemisphere to Venezuela?
Yes.
Date updated: March 01, 2024
Released on November 17, 2023
1167. How does Venezuela General License (GL) 45B differ from Venezuela GL 45A?
On February 29, 2024, OFAC issued Venezuela GL 45B , “Authorizing Certain Repatriation Transactions Involving Consorcio Venezolano de Industrias Aeronáuticas y Servicios Aéreos, S.A.,” which narrowed the scope of transactions previously authorized by GL 45A.  GL 45B no longer authorizes transactions ordinarily incident and necessary to non-commercial flights (i.e., not-for-profit flights that are not intended to generate a profit for Conviasa) between non-U.S. jurisdictions in the Western Hemisphere and Venezuela that are not exclusively for the purposes of repatriation. In addition, OFAC is removing the Annex and authorization related to the general maintenance (including repair) of aircraft previously listed in it, limiting the authorization for general maintenance to the aircraft being used for repatriation flights.
Released on March 1, 2024
1218. How is Treasury planning to implement the President’s February 26 announcement on energy-related authorizations in Venezuela?
Treasury is preparing to take action to wind-down General License 41 and other specific licenses as appropriate. We will issue additional guidance to assist implementation concurrent with any changes to the authorization(s).
Released on March 2, 2025
1226. Does "Venezuelan-origin oil" as referenced in Venezuela General License (GL) 46B , "Authorizing Certain Activities Involving Venezuelan-Origin Oil or Petrochemical Products," include petroleum products?
Yes. Consistent with the term "Venezuelan oil" as defined in section 5(a) of Executive Order 14245 , "Imposing Tariffs on Countries Importing Venezuelan Oil," the term "Venezuelan-origin oil" means crude oil or petroleum products extracted, refined, or exported from Venezuela, regardless of the nationality of the entity involved in the production or sale of such crude oil or petroleum products.
As defined by the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA), petroleum products include unfinished oils, liquefied petroleum gases, pentanes plus, aviation gasoline, motor gasoline, naphtha-type jet fuel, kerosene-type jet fuel, kerosene, distillate fuel oil, residual fuel oil, petrochemical feedstocks, special naphthas, lubricants, waxes, petroleum coke, asphalt, road oil, still gas, and miscellaneous products obtained from the processing of crude oil (including lease condensate), natural gas, and other hydrocarbon compounds. In keeping with the EIA's standard definition, petroleum products do not include natural gas, liquefied natural gas, biofuels, methanol, and other non-petroleum fuels.
Accordingly, crude oil blends such as Merey 16 or bitumen blends, as well as petroleum products or byproducts, including gasoline, asphalt, flexicoke, and petroleum coke, are considered "Venezuelan-origin oil" for the purposes of GL 46B.
Additionally, on March 13, 2026, OFAC expanded the scope of GL 46B 's authorizations to include the purchase of Venezuelan-origin petrochemical products, including fertilizer and certain precursor chemicals identified in the Annex of the GL.
Updated March 13, 2026
Released on February 6, 2026
1227. What activities does Venezuela General License (GL) 46B authorize?
GL 46B authorizes activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the lifting (which refers to the physical loading and removal of oil from a terminal, storage facility, or production site for delivery to a buyer), exportation, reexportation, sale, resale, supply, storage, marketing, purchase, delivery, or transportation of Venezuelan-origin oil and petrochemical products by an established U.S. entity, which may include:
engaging in commercial, legal, and technical discussions necessary to scope purchases of Venezuelan-origin oil, including with third-party legal, commercial, or due diligence consultants;
conducting safety, environmental, and other relevant inspections, including site surveys;
arranging logistics, security services, delivery points, and shipping preparation, including obtaining marine insurance and engaging with relevant port or maritime authorities of the Government of Venezuela (GOV) or their personnel;
conducting certain downstream activities, including the refining and resale of Venezuelan-origin oil;
coordinating payment structures, including payments in the form of swaps of oil, diluents, or refined petroleum products, among others;
making required repairs and maintenance to pipeline, storage, or port infrastructure necessary to effectuate the loading of vessels; or
the financing of related cargos or receivables.
Notably, GL 46B does not authorize:
transactions that are not on commercially reasonable terms;
payment in gold or the use of debt swaps;
payments denominated in digital currency, digital coin, or digital tokens issued by, for, or on behalf of the Government of Venezuela, including the petro;
any transaction involving a person located in the Russian Federation, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Republic of Cuba, or any entity that is owned or controlled by or in a joint venture with such persons;
transactions involving an entity located in or organized under the laws of Venezuela or the United States that is owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by or in a joint venture with a person located in or organized under the laws of the People's Republic of China;
the unblocking of any property blocked pursuant to the Venezuela Sanctions Regulations; or
any transaction involving a blocked vessel.
For information on how an entity that is not an "established U.S. entities" (including non-U.S. entities) can be involved in transactions authorized by GL 46B, see FAQ 1230 .
Updated March 13, 2026
Released on February 6, 2026
1228. Does Venezuela General License (GL) 46 , "Authorizing Certain Activities Involving Venezuelan-Origin Oil," authorize exploration activity or negotiations for new investment activities?
No. GL 46 authorizes the purchase, exportation, and sale of Venezuelan-origin oil that has already been extracted, including the refining of such oil. It does not authorize other exploration or production activities, such as conducting geological surveys, drilling wells, or extracting oil from fields in Venezuela, nor does it authorize activities related to investment in the Venezuelan oil sector, such as negotiations with Petróleos de Venezuela, S.A. (PdVSA) to enter into a contract to develop or operate oil fields, blocks, or other concessions. For more information on what transactions are authorized by GL 46, see FAQ 1227 .
Released on February 6, 2026
1229.  Venezuela General License (GL) 46 authorizes certain activity by an "established U.S. entity." What is an "established U.S. entity" for purposes of GL 46?
For purposes of GL 46, the term "established U.S. entity" means any entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States on or before January 29, 2025.
GL 46 is designed to help ensure that the oil exported from Venezuela will be through legitimate and authorized channels, consistent with U.S. law and President Trump's efforts to restore prosperity, safety, and security to the United States and Venezuela. Established U.S. companies should be familiar with complying with U.S. laws and regulations, including U.S. sanctions regulations, which will help ensure their ability to market Venezuelan oil in the global marketplace for the benefit of the United States, Venezuela, and our allies.
Released on February 6, 2026
1230. Can an entity that is not an "established U.S. entity" be involved in transactions authorized by Venezuela General License (GL) 46 ?
Yes. Non-U.S. persons may engage in transactions or provide services that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the established U.S. entity’s transactions authorized by GL 46. Such activities or ancillary services could include: providing transportation and logistics services to an established U.S. entity for the export of Venezuelan-origin oil; providing marine insurance to vessels chartered by established U.S. entities to transport Venezuelan-origin oil; the financing of related cargoes or receivables; leasing storage facilities for Venezuelan-origin oil purchased by an established U.S. entity; or contracting with established U.S. entities for repair or maintenance services of infrastructure necessary to effectuate the export of oil from Venezuela, among others.
Please see FAQ 1235 for additional information regarding authorized downstream trading activities.
Please see FAQ 1231 for certain individuals and jurisdictions excluded from the scope of GL 46.
Released on February 6, 2026
1231. What entities or jurisdictions are excluded from transactions authorized under Venezuela General License (GL) 46 ?
GL 46 excludes the involvement of persons located in or organized under the laws of the Russia Federation, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, and the Republic of Cuba—as well as any entity owned or controlled, directly or indirectly (including by or in a joint venture with) any of the foregoing.
In addition, GL 46 does not authorize transactions with any Venezuelan or U.S. entity that is owned or controlled by, or in a joint venture with, a person located in or organized under the laws of the People's Republic of China. However, GL 46 does not restrict the resale of Venezuelan-origin oil to China by an established U.S. entity.
Released on February 6, 2026
1232. What does OFAC consider "commercially reasonable terms," as described in Venezuela General License (GL) 46 ?
"Commercially reasonable terms" means terms that are consistent with prevailing market and industry standards for like or similar products produced by a company of similar size and scope, while taking into account characteristics such as quality, quantity, pricing, performance, and safety, among others. Commercially reasonable terms include terms related to, among other things, the governance, economics, operations, and legal/compliance requirements of a contract negotiated at arm’s length between two or more parties.
Released on February 6, 2026
1233. Are all entities engaged in a transaction authorized by Venezuela General License (GL) 46 required to have contracts with the dispute resolution requirement included in paragraph (a)(1)?
No. The dispute resolution requirement in paragraph (a)(1) of GL 46 applies only to contracts governing transactions undertaken by an established U.S. entity when the contract is with the Government of Venezuela (GOV), Petróleos de Venezuela, S.A. (PdVSA), or any entity in which PdVSA owns, directly or indirectly, a 50 percent or greater interest (PdVSA Entities).
This requirement does not apply to indirect parties or indirect counterparties involved in transactions authorized by GL 46, such as downstream transactions involving the provision of shipping, insurance, or other services to an entity engaged in a transaction involving PdVSA. For example, this provision would not apply to a contract between an insurance provider and an established U.S. entity engaged in a transaction with PdVSA to purchase Venezuelan-origin oil (though it would apply to the contract between the U.S. entity and PdVSA).
Released on February 6, 2026
1234. How does a financial institution verify a transaction is compliant with Venezuela General License (GL) 46 ?
In connection with its normal due diligence, a financial institution may rely on the statements of its customer that the transaction is consistent with the terms of GL 46 , unless it knows or has reason to know otherwise.
Released on February 6, 2026
1235. Does Venezuela General License (GL) 46 authorize downstream trading activities in Venezuelan-origin oil?
Yes. Once a transaction with the Government of Venezuela (GOV), Petróleos de Venezuela, S.A. (PdVSA), or its majority-owned subsidiaries (PdVSA Entities) has been completed pursuant to GL 46, and the interest—including any future or contingent interest—of a blocked entity is fully extinguished, then the oil can be freely sold, resold, and traded by any downstream purchaser, including entities that are not established U.S. entities, as defined in GL 46 .
Released on February 6, 2026
1236. How does Venezuela General License (GL) 30B differ from Venezuela GL 30A?
On February 10, 2026 OFAC issued Venezuela GL 30B , “Authorizing Certain Transactions Necessary to Port and Airport Operations,” which removes the prohibition in GL 30A regarding transactions or activities related to the exportation or reexportation of diluents to Venezuela.  Transactions authorized by GL 30B continue to include payments that are ordinarily incident and necessary to operations or use of ports and airports in Venezuela, including transactions involving the Instituto Nacional de los Espacios Acuaticos (INEA) or its majority-owned subsidiaries.  GL 30B authorizes the payment of port fees and customs duties—including for activities authorized under Venezuela GLs 46A , 47 , and 48 .
Released on February 18, 2026
1237. Do Venezuela General Licenses (GLs) 46A and 48 allow for the payments of certain local taxes, permits, and fees in support of authorized transactions involving Venezuela’s oil or gas sectors?
Yes. Consistent with other authorizations issued by OFAC pursuant to the Venezuela Sanctions Regulations (VSR), GLs 46A and 48 authorize routine payments of local taxes, permits, and fees to the Government of Venezuela (GOV) or its instrumentalities.
However, other payments, including royalties, fixed per-barrel production levies, or federal taxes to blocked persons, such as the GOV or Petróleos de Venezuela, S.A. (PdVSA), must be made into the Foreign Government Deposit Funds, as specified in Executive Order (E.O.) 14373 , or any other account as instructed by the U.S. Department of the Treasury.
Released on February 18, 2026
1238. Would OFAC approve the resale of Venezuelan origin oil to Cuba?
In accordance with the United States' support and solidarity for the Cuban people, OFAC would implement a favorable licensing policy toward specific license applications seeking authorization for the resale of Venezuelan-origin oil for use in Cuba. To qualify for this favorable licensing policy, the requested transactions would need to be consistent with the terms and conditions of Venezuela General License (GL) 46A , though applicants need not necessarily have an established U.S. entity and the limitations in GL 46A with respect to Cuba would not apply. This favorable licensing policy is directed towards transactions that support the Cuban people, including the Cuban private sector (e.g., exports for commercial and humanitarian use in Cuba). Consistent with applicable U.S. law and policy, transactions involving, or for the benefit, of any persons or entities associated with the Cuban military, intelligence services, or other government institutions, including entities listed on the U.S. State Department's Cuba Restricted List, see 31 C.F.R. 515.209 , as well as any Cuban-owned financial institutions, would not be covered by this favorable licensing policy (collectively, the "excluded parties").
Parties seeking a license under this policy must implement measures to ensure that no subsequent transactions related to the Venezuelan-origin oil involve or benefit, either directly or indirectly, the excluded parties. These measures should include provisions in sale or resale agreements prohibiting any direct or indirect participation by the excluded parties in any present or future transaction related to the Venezuelan-origin oil, as well as requirements that any present or future financial transactions involving the sale or resale of the Venezuelan-origin oil are routed through a financial institution based in the United States, or otherwise do not involve transactions routed through financial institutions associated with, or controlled by, the excluded parties.
As a reminder, the U.S. Department of Commerce primarily regulates the export or reexport of U.S.-origin oil to Cuba, as well as all other items subject to the Export Administration Regulations (EAR, 15 C.F.R. parts 730-774). Treasury's Cuban Assets Control Regulations generally authorize U.S. persons to engage in transactions ordinarily incident to the export of oil from the United States to Cuba, or the reexport of U.S.-origin oil from a third country to Cuba, where that export or reexport has been authorized by the Commerce Department. See 31 C.F.R. 515.533(a) . This authorization applies to transactions covered by applicable Commerce Department license exceptions, including License Exception Support for the Cuban People (SCP), 15 CFR § 740.21, which authorizes exports and reexports of gas and other petroleum products to improve living conditions and support independent economic activity. In other words, U.S.-origin oil exports, as well as other gas and petroleum products covered by License Exception SCP, do not require separate OFAC authorizations. Exporters and reexporters are responsible for reviewing current Commerce Department guidance, see here , and ensuring that any transaction undertaken pursuant to License Exception SCP or any other license exception meet all applicable terms and conditions.
See FAQ 1226 for the definition of "Venezuelan-origin oil," which includes petroleum products.
Date Updated: March 05, 2026
Released on February 25, 2026
1239. Where can I find the account information to make authorized payments to the Foreign Government Deposit Funds, as specified in Executive Order 14373?
To obtain payment account information for payments to the Foreign Government Deposit Funds, as specified in Executive Order (E.O.) 14373 , "Safeguarding Venezuelan Oil Revenue for the Good of the American and Venezuelan People," and referenced in certain Venezuela General Licenses, please contact DepositorInquiries@state.gov . Please be prepared to provide all relevant transaction details, including the following, as appropriate:
Full legal names and addresses of corporate depositor and all contract parties (provide subsidiary information, as applicable);
Detailed description of the underlying contract or obligation, including the purpose and nature of the payment (include information on the type of product and amount purchased and/or sold);
Date of sale and copies of the corresponding invoice(s), contract number(s), and any relevant reference identifiers;
Total payment amount, currency, and proposed payment date;
Identification of the license authorizing the transaction;
Copies of any other transaction record(s) to validate the deposit; and
Primary point of contact for any follow-up questions, including name, title, telephone number, and email address.
Released on March 4, 2026
1240. For purposes of Venezuela General License (GL) 47 (Authorizing the Sale of U.S.-Origin Diluents to Venezuela), how does OFAC define diluent?
For the purposes of GL 47, diluent means a light hydrocarbon liquid, such as natural gas condensate, naphtha, or light crude oil, that is added to heavy crude oil or bitumen to reduce its viscosity and density in order to transport, export, store, or process more easily.
Released on March 4, 2026
1241. What does Venezuela General License (GL) 48 (Authorizing the Supply of Certain Items and Services to Venezuela) authorize?
GL 48 authorizes the provision of goods, technology, software, or services from the United States or by a U.S. person for the exploration, development, or production of oil or gas in Venezuela.
Examples of authorized transactions under GL 48 include the provision of:
insurance services for oil and gas operations;
maintenance, refurbishment, or repair of items used for oil or gas exploration, development, or production activities;
spare or replacement parts required to maintain oil or gas production activities;
exploration and subsurface interpretation software;
well stimulation products such as fracturing fluids; or
the processing of payments from the Government of Venezuela (GOV) or other authorized blocked persons for the underlying transactions. However, any monetary payment to the GOV or Petróleos de Venezuela, S.A. (PdVSA) or its majority-owned subsidiaries (other than payments for local taxes, permits, or fees) must be deposited into the Foreign Government Deposit Funds established pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 14373 , or another Treasury-instructed account. See FAQ 1237 for information on the payment of local taxes, permits, and fees to the GOV.
GL 48 does not authorize the formation of new joint ventures or other corporate entities in Venezuela to explore or produce oil or gas, nor does it authorize any transaction related to a joint venture involving the Russian Federation or the People's Republic of China, among other conditions. Please note that certain export activities authorized by GL 48 may require additional authorization from the Commerce Department's Bureau of Industry and Security.
Released on March 4, 2026
1242. What does Venezuela General License (GL) 50A authorize?
GL 50A authorizes, subject to its conditions and exclusions, transactions prohibited by the Venezuela Sanctions Regulations (VSR) that are related to oil or gas sector operations in Venezuela of the entities listed in the Annex to GL 50A and their subsidiaries. Transactions authorized by Venezuela GL 50A include:
the lifting, exportation, reexportation, sale, resale, supply, storage, marketing, purchase, delivery, or transportation of oil or gas from Venezuela, as well as the refining of such oil or gas;
the provision or receipt of goods, services, software, or technology related to oil or gas sector operations in Venezuela;
new investment in oil or gas sector operations in Venezuela, including expanding existing operations in Venezuela, engaging in new oil or gas exploration, production, or development activities in Venezuela, and forming new joint ventures or other entities in Venezuela related to the foregoing activities;
engaging in prefatory steps for any of the foregoing activities, such as conducting commercial, legal, technical, safety, and environmental due diligence and assessments; and
the processing of payments related to any of the aforementioned activities.
Additionally, U.S. persons may enter into contracts with entities identified in the Annex of GL 50A that are ordinarily incident and necessary to transactions authorized by GL 50A .
Released on March 4, 2026
1243. What authorizations exist to develop oil or gas projects in Venezuela for companies that are not listed in Venezuela General License (GL) 50A (Authorizing Transactions Related to Oil or Gas Sector Operations in Venezuela of Certain Entities)?
Entities not identified in the Annex to GL 50A can rely on other authorizations to support the development of oil or gas projects in Venezuela. For example, such companies can enter into contingent contracts for new investments in the Venezuela oil or gas sectors pursuant to GL 49 and submit a specific license application to OFAC to request additional authorization to perform any contingent contracts executed.
Additionally, GL 48 authorizes, subject to certain restrictions, the provision of goods, technology, software, or services from the United States or by a U.S. person for the exploration, development, or production of oil or gas in Venezuela. Transactions authorized under GL 48 include activities in support of: (1) existing oil or gas operations in Venezuela, or (2) exploration or due diligence activities necessary to inform future joint ventures or other oil or gas developments, such as the importation of software to assist in conducting site surveys, data processing or modeling, or seismic or geologic studies, for example. For more information on what transactions are authorized and excluded by GL 48, see FAQ 1241 .
Taken together, GLs 48 and 49 authorize all transactions otherwise prohibited by the Venezuela Sanctions Regulations (VSR) by interested parties to conduct all necessary due diligence activities—including the importation of goods, services, or technologies consistent with U.S. export control law—to inform the negotiation of and entry into contingent contracts for new investment in the oil or gas sector of Venezuela.
Alternatively, U.S. persons could also enter into contracts with entities identified in the Annex of GL 50A to support authorized activities in the Venezuelan oil or gas sectors. For more information on what transactions GL 50A authorizes, see FAQ 1242 .
Released on March 4, 2026
1244. How will OFAC assess specific license applications to perform any contingent contracts that are executed pursuant to Venezuela General License (GL) 49 ?
Specific license applications to perform any contingent contracts executed pursuant to GL 49 will be assessed on a case-by-case basis consistent with U.S. foreign policy and national security priorities. Recent Venezuela-related general licenses issued by OFAC have included various limitations in line with these U.S. priorities, which we encourage parties to consider during contract negotiations. Such restrictions have included prohibitions on transactions involving persons located in the Russian Federation, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Republic of Cuba, the People's Republic of China, or any entity owned or controlled by or in a joint venture with such persons; required that transactions are conducted on commercially reasonable terms; required that contracts specify U.S. jurisdiction for dispute resolution; and required that payment of royalties or other funds owed to blocked persons—excluding local taxes, permits, and fees—are made into the Foreign Government Deposit Funds or other accounts designated by Treasury.
Released on March 4, 2026
1245. What activities are authorized by Venezuela General License (GL) 52 , "Authorizing Certain Transactions Involving Petróleos de Venezuela, S.A."?
GL 52 authorizes, subject to its conditions and exclusions, transactions prohibited by Executive Orders (E.O.s) 13884 or 13850 with Petróleos de Venezuela, S.A. (PdVSA) and any entity in which PdVSA owns, directly or indirectly, a 50 percent or greater interest (collectively, "PdVSA Entities"), by established U.S. entities. Transactions authorized by GL 52 include activities related to:
the lifting, exportation, reexportation, sale, resale, supply, storage, marketing, purchase, delivery, or transportation of Venezuelan oil or petroleum products of Venezuelan-origin oil and petroleum products;
the provision to Venezuela of diluent, goods, services, and technologies necessary for exploration, development, or production activities in the oil, gas, or petrochemical products sectors;
entry into new investment contracts for exploration, development, or production activities in the oil, gas, or petroleum products sectors of Venezuela;
the formation of new joint ventures or other entities in Venezuela related to such activities; and
all transactions ordinarily incident and necessary to such activities, including the performance of commercial, legal, technical, safety, and environmental due diligence and assessments related to the foregoing.
Notably, GL 52 does not authorize transactions that would otherwise be prohibited by the Venezuelan Sanctions Regulations, 31 CFR Part 591 , and associated Executive Orders, including E.O. 13808 and E.O. 13835 , such as:
transactions related to bonds and debt issued by PdVSA and its subsidiaries, including settlement of such bonds and debt;
transactions involving equity interest in PdVSA and its subsidiaries, including the sale, transfer, assignment, or use as collateral of equity interests in PdVSA and its subsidiaries by the Government of Venezuela;
transactions involving the transfer of equity interest in PDV Holding, CITGO Holding, or CITGO Petroleum Corp.; or
transactions involving any other individuals or entities on the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List.
GL 52 also does not authorize:
transactions that are not on commercially reasonable terms;
payment in gold or the use of debt swaps;
payments denominated in digital currency, digital coin, or digital tokens issued by, for, or on behalf of the Government of Venezuela, including the petro;
any transaction involving a person located in the Russian Federation, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Republic of Cuba, or any entity that is owned or controlled by or in a joint venture with such persons;
transactions involving an entity located in or organized under the laws of Venezuela or the United States that is owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by or in a joint venture with a person located in or organized under the laws of the People's Republic of China;
the unblocking of any property blocked pursuant to the Venezuela Sanctions Regulations; or
any transaction involving a blocked vessel.
Released on March 18, 2026
1246. Does General License 52 authorize the sale of certain shares of CITGO that are the subject of Crystallex International Corporation v. Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela?
No. A specific license will be required before any sale is executed in the Crystallex case.
Notwithstanding the existence of any general licenses under the Venezuela Sanctions Regulations (VSR), a specific license from OFAC is required for the entry into a settlement agreement, or for the enforcement of any lien, judgment, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to the VSR.
For additional information, see 31 CFR §§ 591.309 , 591.310 , and 591.407 .
Released on March 18, 2026
1247. Do non-U.S. persons face sanctions risk for engaging in transactions authorized by General Licenses (GL) 46B, 51A, and 52?
No, provided that non-U.S. persons comply with certain conditions outlined in GLs 46B , 51A , and 52 , as described below. Subject to certain conditions, GLs 46B, 51A, and 52 authorize established U.S. entities to engage in certain transactions involving Petróleos de Venezuela, S.A. (PdVSA), as well as certain transactions that are ordinarily incident and necessary to, among other activities, the exportation, sale, supply, storage, purchase, delivery, or transportation of Venezuelan-origin oil, petrochemical products, or minerals (including gold). Generally, non-U.S. persons do not risk exposure to U.S. sanctions for engaging in transactions authorized under GLs 46B, 51A, or 52 — such as transacting with PdVSA or importing Venezuelan-origin oil, petrochemical products, or minerals, into a third country — provided that:
The non-U.S. entity was organized under the laws of a third country on or before January 29, 2025;
Any monetary payment to a blocked person, excluding payments for local taxes, permits, or fees, is made into the Foreign Government Deposit Funds, as specified in Executive Order 14373 of January 9, 2026, or any other account as instructed by the U.S. Department of the Treasury;
The payment terms are commercially reasonable;
The payment terms do not involve debt swaps, and are not denominated in digital currency, digital coin, or digital tokens issued by, for, or on behalf of the Government of Venezuela, including the petro;
The transaction does not involve a person located in or organized under the laws of the Russian Federation, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Republic of Cuba, or any entity that is owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by or in a joint venture with such persons;
The transaction does not involve an entity located in or organized under the laws of Venezuela or the United States that is owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by or in a joint venture with a person located in or organized under the laws of the People's Republic of China;
The transaction does not involve a blocked vessel; and
With respect to GL 51A , the transaction does not involve the processing or refining of Venezuelan-origin minerals, including gold, in the Russian Federation, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Republic of Cuba, or the People's Republic of China.
These conditions are designed to ensure that transactions involving PdVSA or Venezuelan-origin oil, petrochemical products, and minerals occur through legitimate and authorized channels, consistent with efforts to restore prosperity, safety, and security to Venezuela. Non-U.S. persons who continue to transact with PdVSA or import Venezuelan-origin oil, petrochemical products, and minerals, including gold, without complying with the above conditions risk being designated themselves, including for providing financial, material, or technological support to blocked persons, being responsible for or complicit in a transaction involving deceptive practices or corruption and the Government of Venezuela, or operating in the gold or oil sectors of the Venezuelan economy.  Please note that GL 52 contains additional restrictions on engaging in certain transactions prohibited by other Venezuela-related Executive orders, such as transactions related to bonds and debt issued by PdVSA, as well as on the entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property of any persons blocked pursuant to the Venezuela Sanctions Regulations.
Please see FAQ 1226 for the definition of "Venezuelan-origin oil," which includes petroleum products.
Please see FAQ 1232 for what OFAC considers "commercially reasonable terms."
Please see FAQ 1239 for information on how to make authorized payments to the Foreign Government Deposit Funds, as specified in E.O. 14373 .
Released on March 31, 2026
1248. Since January 2026, OFAC has issued a series of Venezuela-related General Licenses related to purchases and investment in Venezuela's natural resource sectors, such as Venezuela-related General Licenses (GLs) 48A and 50A , that include a reporting requirement. Which parties are responsible for providing such reports pursuant to those General Licenses?
In general, the parties engaged in the primary authorized activity are responsible for complying with the applicable reporting requirements in these Venezuela-related GLs. Parties that are only indirectly involved or providing services ancillary to the primary authorized activity are not required to file reports pursuant to the applicable license. For example, a company providing services for the generation of electricity in Venezuela under GL 48A would need to report such activities pursuant to that license, but a bank processing payments related to those services does not also need to provide a report. Similarly, under GL 50A , the parties listed in the annex would be required to provide reports describing their activities undertaken pursuant to the license, whereas the bank processing those related payments would not.
Released on April 14, 2026
1259. Are private and commercial flights authorized to arrive in and depart from airports in Venezuela, and can they receive ground services in-country?
Yes. Venezuela-related General License (GL) 30B authorizes U.S. persons to engage in all transactions involving the Government of Venezuela (GOV), including its agencies and instrumentalities like the Instituto Nacional de Aeronáutica Civil (INAC) and Instituto Nacional de los Espacios Aquaticos (INEA), that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the operation or use of airports in Venezuela.
Transactions ordinarily incident and necessary to the operation or use of airports in Venezuela include but are not limited to: the provision of baggage and ground handling services; safety and security services; airport operational services; air navigation and overflight services; fuel and into-plane services; and the payment of aeronautical, customs, immigration, and other government-imposed fees and taxes. Please see FAQ 1236 for additional information on GL 30B's authorizations.
GL 30B does not authorize transactions involving blocked persons other than (i) INEA, or (ii) GOV persons blocked solely pursuant to E.O. 13884 , including INAC.
Additionally, Venezuela-related GL 33 authorizes the receipt of, and payment for, services involving the GOV related to overflights and emergency landings in Venezuela. It also authorizes transactions necessary to provide air ambulance and related medical services, including medical evacuation.
GL 33 does not authorize transactions involving persons identified on OFAC's List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons (SDN List) or owned 50 percent or more by persons identified on the SDN List.
Generally, non-U.S. persons do not risk exposure to U.S. sanctions for engaging in transactions authorized for U.S. persons, including engaging in transactions authorized pursuant to GL 30B or GL 33. Additionally, U.S. sanctions programs issued pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA) , including the Venezuela Sanctions Regulations, do not generally prohibit transactions ordinarily incident to travel to or from any country.
Released on June 10, 2026
1260. Does the requirement in certain Venezuela General Licenses (e.g., 46C , 47A , 48B , 50B , 51B , 52A , and 54A ) that the terms of contracts be construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of a state or other jurisdiction within the United States mean that U.S. law must govern all aspects of the underlying activity?
No.  Certain Venezuela general licenses (GLs) require that any contract for transactions authorized by the GL with the Government of Venezuela or certain other covered entities (e.g., Petróleos de Venezuela, S.A. in GL 52A or CVG Compañía General de Minería de Venezuela CA in GL 51B ) specify that the terms of the contract be construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of a state or other jurisdiction within the United States. The GLs also require dispute resolution proceedings relating to the contract or its breach to occur in the United States, the United Kingdom, France, or Singapore. If the parties agree to submit their dispute to arbitration, the procedural rules applicable are those rules agreed by the parties, or the rules of internationally recognized institutions or the rules of the seat of arbitration.
This requirement means that the laws of a state or other jurisdiction within the United States must govern questions of contract law between the parties relating to the contract, including interpretation, contractual performance obligations, breach, contractual remedies, payment obligations, termination, validity, assignment or novation, and enforceability of the contract.
The requirement permits the inclusion of contract terms that recognize that certain aspects of the underlying activity in Venezuela may be subject to applicable Venezuelan law and regulations, including laws and regulations governing the exercise of Venezuela’s sovereign regulatory authority, administrative permits and licenses, concessions, labor, environmental, health and safety, and other mandatory regulatory requirements.
Released on June 10, 2026
1263. Does General License (GL) 60 require that payments to the Government of Venezuela be made into the Foreign Government Deposit Funds Account (FGDF)?
No. GL 60 authorizes all transactions related to earthquake relief efforts in Venezuela under the Venezuela Sanctions Regulations, which includes payment of taxes, tolls, and fees to the Government of Venezuela connected with such relief efforts. Payments related to earthquake relief that are authorized by GL 60 do not need to be paid into the FGDF.
However, the requirements under other Venezuela-related GLs, such as GLs 46C , 48B , 49A , 50B , 51B , 52A , and 54A , remain in place. Payments for activities outside of the scope of GL 60 but authorized under other Venezuela-related GLs that contain the FGDF payment requirement must continue to be paid into the FGDF and may not be recharacterized as earthquake relief or otherwise modified for the purpose of avoiding payment into the FGDF.
Released on July 17, 2026
