# Iran Sanctions FAQ Topic Page

Specially Designated Nationals List (SDN List)
Consolidated Sanctions List (Non-SDN Lists)
Additional Sanctions Lists
Search OFAC's Sanctions Lists
Sanctions Programs and Country Information
Recent Actions
OFAC License Application Page
Additional OFAC Resources
Frequently Asked Questions
Civil Penalties and Enforcement Information
OFAC Reporting System
Selected General Licenses Issued by OFAC
Contact OFAC
Iran Sanctions
Print this topic
Iran Sanctions
37. My bank operates accounts for individuals living in Iran. OFAC has told us that these accounts cannot be operated. Does this mean that the accounts are blocked?
No, the accounts are restricted. The Iranian sanctions prohibit the export of goods or services to Iran. By operating an account for an individual or company in Iran, the bank would be exporting services to that person or entity in violation of the Iranian Transactions Regulations. The accounts, however, are not blocked. The account holder can close the account and have the funds transferred to his or her account outside the United States.
Released on September 10, 2002
38. Are U-Turn payments for Iran still permitted?
No, as of November 10, 2008 U-Turn payments are no longer allowed.
Released on November 10, 2008
54. I have an account with a W-8 showing an address in Iran. Is the account automatically restricted?
In the absence of information proving to your satisfaction that the account holder is not in Iran, you should consider the account restricted based on the W-8 filing. See FAQ 37 .
Released on June 24, 2005
118. I have a client that is in Iran to visit a relative. Do I need to restrict the account?
No. As long as you are satisfied that the client is not ordinarily resident in Iran, then the account does not need to be restricted. See FAQ 37 .
Released on July 28, 2009
149. What activities by foreign financial institutions can subject them to CISADA sanctions?
As described in the Iranian Financial Sanctions Regulations , the sanctionable activities of a foreign financial institution are:
Facilitating the efforts of the Government of Iran (GOI) to acquire or develop Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) or delivery systems for WMD or to provide support for terrorist organizations or acts of international terrorism;
Facilitating the activities of a person subject to financial sanctions pursuant to UNSCRs 1737 , 1747 , 1803 , or 1929 , or any other Security Council resolution that imposes sanctions with respect to Iran;
Engaging in money laundering, or facilitating efforts by the Central Bank of Iran or any other Iranian financial institution , to carry out either of the facilitating activities described above; or
Facilitating a significant transaction or transactions or providing significant financial services for: (i) the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps or any of its agents or affiliates whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA), or (ii) a financial institution whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to IEEPA in connection with Iran’s proliferation of WMD, Iran’s proliferation of delivery systems for WMD, or Iran’s support for international terrorism.
150. Where can I find a list of Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) affiliates and Iran-linked financial institutions “blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA)”?
The list of blocked IRGC affiliates and blocked Iran-linked financial institutions is dynamic and is based on the identity of “designated” persons, which refers both to natural persons (i.e., individuals) and legal persons (such as corporations and other entities). The most recent list of designated persons – which includes most, but not all, blocked entities* – can be found at here.  The listings of designated IRGC entities will be followed by the tag [IRGC]; those of designated Iran-linked financial institutions will have the tag [IFSR].
* Under Department of the Treasury regulations, designated persons are those that are named on the list. All interests in property of such persons are blocked, and such persons are considered to have an interest in all property and entities in which they own, directly or indirectly, a 50 percent or greater interest. As a result, such property and entities are also blocked, even if they do not themselves appear on the list.
151. How do the Iranian Financial Sanctions Regulations (IFSR) define “U.S. financial institutions”?
The Iranian Financial Sanctions Regulations (IFSR) define “U.S. financial institutions” to include: depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money service businesses, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of these entities. Covered institutions include those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States.
152. How do the Iranian Financial Sanctions Regulations (IFSR) define “foreign financial institutions”?
The Iranian Financial Sanctions Regulations (IFSR) define “ foreign financial institutions ” to include foreign depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money service businesses, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and holding companies, affiliates, or subsidiaries of any of these entities.
153. How do the Iranian Financial Sanctions Regulations (IFSR) define the term “knowingly”?
The term “knowingly” as used in the IFSR means that a person has actual knowledge or should have known of specific conduct, a circumstance, or a result. In other words, the IFSR could be implicated if the Treasury Department finds that a foreign financial institution knew or should have known that it engaged in one or more of the sanctionable activities.
154. How does the Treasury Department determine whether a transaction or financial service is “significant” for purposes of the Iranian Financial Sanctions Regulations (IFSR)?
As set out in the IFSR , in determining whether a transaction or financial service is “ significant ,” the Treasury Department may consider: (1) the size, number, frequency, and nature of the transaction(s); (2) the level of awareness of management of the transaction(s) and whether or not the transaction(s) are a part of a pattern of conduct; (3) the nexus between the foreign financial institution involved in the transaction(s) and a blocked Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps individual or entity or blocked Iran-linked financial institution; (4) the impact of the transaction(s) on the goals of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act (CISADA) ; (5) whether the transaction(s) involved any deceptive practices; and (6) other factors the Treasury Department deems relevant on a case-by-case basis.
155. When are the prohibitions and strict conditions on foreign financial institutions’ correspondent accounts or payable-through accounts in the United States effective?
A finding by the Treasury Department that a foreign financial institution knowingly engages in one or more of the sanctionable activities is necessary before the Treasury Department can prohibit or impose strict conditions on the opening or maintaining in the United States of correspondent accounts or payable-through accounts for that foreign financial institution.
156. How will U.S. and foreign financial institutions know that the Treasury Department has made such a finding?
As a general matter, the Treasury Department will reach out to foreign financial institutions to inquire about their conduct before making a finding . If the Treasury Department decides to impose strict condition(s), the Treasury Department will issue an order or a regulation that sets out the strict condition(s) to be imposed on the U.S. correspondent accounts or U.S. payable-through accounts of the relevant foreign financial institution and publish the order or regulation in the Federal Register. The Federal Register is available at www.gpo.gov/fdsys/ . If the Treasury Department decides to prohibit the opening or maintaining of U.S. correspondent accounts or U.S. payable-through accounts for a foreign financial institution, the Treasury Department will add the name of the foreign financial institution and publish it to the part 561 list .
157. How will the Treasury Department enforce the Iranian Financial Sanctions Regulations (IFSR) with respect to U.S. entities?
Any U.S. person who violates the correspondent account provisions of the IFSR may be subject to civil penalties of up to the greater of $250,000 or twice the transaction value, and criminal penalties for willful violations of up to $1 million and 20 years in prison. A U.S. financial institution may be subject to civil penalties of up to the greater of $250,000 or twice the transaction value, if any person that it owns or controls violates the IFSR prohibition on engaging in any transaction with or benefitting the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) or any of its agents or affiliates whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA), and if the U.S. financial institution knew or should have known that the person violated the IFSR.
158. Can the application of any part(s) of the Iranian Financial Sanctions Regulations (IFSR) be waived by the Department of the Treasury?
The Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act (CISADA) provides for a waiver of the sanctions under the Iranian Financial Sanctions Regulations ( IFSR )  if the Secretary of the Treasury determines that a waiver is necessary to the national interest of the United States.
159. Where can I find the text of the Iranian Financial Sanctions Regulations?
The text of the Iranian Financial Sanctions Regulations (IFSR) can be found here .
160. Section 1 of E.O. 13599 blocks all property and interests in property of the Government of Iran, including the Central Bank of Iran, and of all Iranian financial institutions, that are in the United States, that come within the United States, or that come within the possession or control of U.S. persons (including overseas branches). Can you provide further clarification about this provision of E.O. 13599?
E.O. 13599 requires U.S. persons to block (i.e., freeze) all property and interests in property of the Government of Iran, including the Central Bank of Iran, and of all Iranian financial institutions, which also includes the Central Bank of Iran. This means that all individuals and entities that meet the definition of “Government of Iran” (“GOI”) as defined by section 7(d) of the new E.O. as well as all Iranian financial institutions (whether or not they meet the definition of the GOI) are now blocked. Previously, under the Iranian Transactions Regulations, 31 C.F.R. part 560 (the “ITR”) , financial institutions and other U.S. persons were prohibited from engaging in transactions with the GOI. Under those prior rules, U.S. financial institutions receiving instructions to execute transactions involving these entities were not required to block the transactions, but were instead required to reject those instructions rather than carry them out, unless the transactions were exempt, authorized, or not prohibited by OFAC. The Executive Order defines an “Iranian financial institution” as a financial institution organized under the laws of Iran or any jurisdiction within Iran (including foreign branches), any financial institution in Iran, any financial institution, wherever located, owned or controlled by the Government of Iran, and any financial institution, wherever located, owned or controlled by any of the aforementioned entities.
As a result, transactions involving entities bearing the [IRAN] tag on OFAC’s List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons (“ SDN List ”) will now need to be blocked unless exempt or authorized by OFAC. Going forward, the [IRAN] tag will connote that a person or entity meets the definition of the term “GOI” or “Iranian Financial Institution”. OFAC will continue to update the SDN List and may add, delete, or edit entries as appropriate.
E.O. 13599 blocks the property and interests in property of any individual or entity that comes within its definition of the term “Government of Iran” regardless of whether it is listed on the SDN List, and similarly it blocks the property and interests in property of all Iranian financial institutions as defined in the order regardless of whether the Iranian financial institution is listed on the SDN List.
E.O. 13599 builds upon the prohibitions in the ITR, which remain in effect.
Please note, pursuant to OFAC guidance, even when an entity does not itself appear on the SDN List or otherwise meet the definition of the GOI or an Iranian financial institution, the property and interests in property of that entity are blocked if the entity is owned, directly or indirectly, 50% or more by a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to an Executive Order or regulations administered by OFAC.
Released on February 6, 2012
161. If all property and interests in property of the Government of Iran, including the Central Bank of Iran, and of all Iranian financial institutions are blocked, can I conduct transactions involving the Government of Iran that have been previously authorized by OFAC?
Generally yes. Under new General License A, almost all transactions that are authorized under existing general licenses issued pursuant to the Iranian Transactions Regulations (ITR) or under existing OFAC specific licenses will continue to be authorized under the authority of E.O. 13599. However, transactions previously authorized under one existing ITR general license are not authorized pursuant to E.O. 13599 . Specifically, the closing of accounts of the Government of Iran or an Iranian financial institution and the lump sum transfer of the balances to an account outside of the United States, which is authorized by sections 560.517(a)(3) & (b)(2) of the ITR, is not authorized by General License A, and, therefore, those transactions are prohibited by E.O. 13599 and the accounts must be blocked. In addition, General License A does not authorize any payments from blocked funds or debits to blocked accounts, with a limited exception for payments from funds or debits to accounts blocked under the Iranian Assets Control Regulations (the hostage crisis blocking program that began in 1979) that are authorized by specific licenses issued by OFAC.
New General License B authorizes U.S. depository institutions and U.S. registered brokers or dealers in securities to process noncommercial, personal remittances, to or from Iran, or for or on behalf of individuals ordinarily resident in Iran who are not included in the term “Government of Iran”, provided that such funds transactions are not made by, to, or through a financial institution blocked pursuant to the Weapons of Mass Destruction Proliferators Sanctions Regulations, 31 C.F.R. part 544 (the “WMDPSR”), or the Global Terrorism Sanctions Regulations, 31 C.F.R. part 594 (the “GTSR”), or a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any other part of 31 C.F.R. chapter V, or any Executive order, except an Iranian financial institution whose property and interests in property are blocked solely pursuant to E.O. 13599.
Transactions not previously authorized by OFAC that involve property or interests in property of the Government of Iran, including the Central Bank of Iran, or of Iranian financial institutions must be blocked.
Released on February 6, 2012
162. Are U.S. persons still required to comply with the Iranian Transactions Regulations (ITR)?
Yes. E.O. 13599 builds upon the prohibitions of the ITR, and the prohibitions of the ITR remain in effect.
Released on February 6, 2012
163. What are the differences and similarities between E.O. 13599 and the Iranian Transactions Regulations (ITR)?
The ITR prohibit prohibit virtually all direct or indirect transactions involving Iran or the Government of Iran by U.S. persons or with a nexus to the United States, unless otherwise authorized by OFAC or exempted by statute, but they do not contain blocking provisions. E.O. 13599 requires U.S. persons to block all property and interests in property of the Government of Iran, including the Central Bank of Iran, and of Iranian financial institutions, which also includes the Central Bank of Iran, unless it relates to a transaction that is exempted by statute or authorized by OFAC.
To illustrate the difference between how a transaction would be treated under the ITR and the new E.O., imagine a commercial wire transfer being processed through the U.S. financial system by order of a third-country, non-U.S. company for credit to a third-country financial institution in favor of a correspondent account it maintains for an Iranian financial institution. The transaction is not exempt or authorized by a general or specific license, and the Iranian bank is not blocked pursuant to the GTSR or the WMDPSR . Previously, under the ITR, any U.S. financial institution handling the transaction would have needed to reject the payment because allowing it to be processed would constitute a prohibited exportation of services to Iran. With the new E.O. in place, the U.S. financial institution would be required to block (“freeze”) that transaction.
Released on February 6, 2012
164. The Iranian Transactions Regulations (ITR) authorize U.S. depository institutions and U.S. registered brokers or dealers in securities to process transfers of funds to or from Iran if the transfer is a non-commercial, personal remittance. Are U.S. depository institutions and U.S. registered brokers or dealers in securities still authorized to process such payments to or from a Government of Iran-owned bank that is not otherwise designated pursuant to another part of 31 C.F.R. Chapter V?
General License B under E.O. 13599 authorizes U.S. depository institutions and U.S. registered brokers or dealers in securities to process noncommercial, personal remittances to or from Iran provided that the payment is not made by, to, or through a financial institution designated by OFAC under the WMDPSR, or the GTSR, or a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any other part of 31 C.F.R. chapter V, or any Executive order, except an Iranian financial institution whose property and interests in property are blocked solely pursuant to E.O. 13599. Exempt or authorized transactions to or from Iran may also be processed subject to the above conditions.
Such transactions must be processed through a third country, as U.S. banks are prohibited from operating correspondent accounts for Iranian banks. The transactions may involve the use of blocked Iranian financial institutions as long as the Iranian financial institution is blocked solely pursuant to E.O. 13599 (and not pursuant to any other Executive order or part of 31 C.F.R. chapter V) and there is a third-country, non-U.S. financial institution as an intermediary between the U.S. financial institution and the Iranian financial institution.
Released on February 6, 2012
165. To what extent are U.S. persons expected to conduct enhanced due diligence to determine if transactions contain a Government of Iran interest?
E.O. 13599 requires U.S. persons to block all property and interests in property of the Government of Iran, unless otherwise exempt or authorized by OFAC.
Please contact the OFAC Compliance Hotline , for guidance regarding entities that you suspect are owned or controlled by the Government of Iran that do not appear on the SDN List . As a general matter, OFAC expects financial institutions to conduct due diligence on their own direct customers (including, for example, their ownership structure) to confirm that those customers are not persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.
With regard to other types of transactions where a financial institution is acting solely as an intermediary and fails to block transactions involving a sanctions target, OFAC will consider the totality of the circumstances surrounding the bank's processing of the transaction to determine what, if any, regulatory response is appropriate.
Released on February 6, 2012
166. OFAC’s SDN List contains a list of entities identified by OFAC as being the Government of Iran. Should U.S. persons now block the property and interests in property of those entities?
Yes, U.S. persons should now block the property and interests in property of the Government of Iran entities appearing on the SDN List , unless OFAC has authorized the underlying transaction or the transaction is exempt.
Released on February 6, 2012
167. OFAC has granted my company a license under the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act of 2000 (“TSRA”) and the Iranian Transactions Regulations (ITR). Can I continue to conduct the licensed transaction?
Under General License A issued pursuant to E.O. 13599 , transactions authorized under existing specific licenses issued pursuant to TSRA and the ITR are authorized under E.O. 13599 until the specific license expires, per the terms of the license.
Released on February 6, 2012
168. OFAC has issued me a (non-TSRA) specific license related to Iran, or the Government of Iran. Can I continue to conduct the licensed transactions?
Under General License A issued pursuant to E.O. 13599 , transactions authorized by (non-TSRA) specific licenses issued prior to the issuance of E.O. 13599 and issued pursuant to any part of 31 C.F.R. chapter V are also authorized under E.O. 13599. As set forth in General License A, in most cases these new authorizations under E.O. 13599 are in effect until theexpiration date of the individual specific license, or, if the specific license has no expiration date, until April 6, 2012.
Released on February 6, 2012
169. What is the NDAA?
On December 31, 2011, the President signed into law the National Defense Authorization Act ( NDAA ). Section 1245 of the NDAA requires the President to block the property and interests in property subject to U.S. jurisdiction of all Iranian financial institutions, including the Central Bank of Iran (CBI). It also aims to reduce Iranian oil revenues and discourage transactions with the CBI by providing for sanctions on foreign financial institutions that knowingly conduct or facilitate certain significant financial transactions with the CBI.
Released on February 14, 2012
170. What activities can trigger sanctions on a foreign financial institution under the NDAA?
For private financial institutions, the Act mandates that the President sanction those institutions that are found to knowingly conduct or facilitate any significant transactions with a U.S.-designated Iranian financial institution or with the Central Bank of Iran (CBI) – whether for the purchase of petroleum or otherwise – unless the transaction is for the sale of food, medicine, or medical devices to Iran. For all transactions with the CBI other than petroleum purchases, this provision takes effect on February 29, 2012, i.e., 60 days after the enactment of the Act. The timing of the petroleum purchase sanctions is discussed immediately below.
Private financial institutions and all other foreign financial institutions – including central banks or foreign state-owned or -controlled banks – potentially face sanctions under the NDAA if they knowingly conduct or facilitate significant financial transactions for the purchase of Iranian petroleum or petroleum products with a U.S.-designated Iranian financial institution or with the CBI after the provision takes effect as early as June 28, 2012, i.e., 180 days after enactment.* This NDAA provision may be held in abeyance beyond June 28, 2012, depending on the President’s determination on the availability and price of alternative supplies. Foreign central and foreign state-owned or -controlled banks are also subject to these sanctions if the transactions are for the sale of petroleum or petroleum products to Iran and they occur after June 28, 2012.
All foreign financial institutions, including private and state-owned institutions, remain subject to section 104(c) of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act (CISADA), which calls for sanctions on foreign financial institutions that are found to have knowingly engaged in facilitating significant transactions for specific Iranian-linked individuals and entities.
*Irrespective of the timeframes set forth in the NDAA, any foreign financial institution that knowingly facilitates significant transactions with any U.S.-designated Iranian financial institution would still be subject to CISADA.
Released on February 14, 2012
171. Does the NDAA (National Defense Authorization Act) repeal or amend Section 104(c) of CISADA (the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act)?
No. Any foreign financial institution that knowingly facilitates significant transactions or provides significant financial services for a U.S.-designated, Iranian-linked financial institution can be sanctioned under section 104(c) of CISADA and section 561.201 of the Iranian Financial Sanctions Regulations (“IFSR”) even if those transactions are not sanctionable under section 1245(d) of the NDAA . Though the NDAA imposes sanctions on foreign financial institutions similar to financial sanctions under CISADA and the IFSR (i.e., prohibiting and/or imposing strict conditions on opening or maintaining correspondent accounts or payable-through accounts in the United States), there are differences in the scope and operation of the statutes.
Released on February 14, 2012
172. How does Executive Order 13599, “Blocking Property of the Government of Iran and Iranian Financial Institutions,” and the blocking of all Iranian financial institutions affect the financial sanctions provisions in CISADA? Do CISADA sanctions now apply to financial transactions with any Iranian financial institution?
The Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act (CISADA) applies to transactions with only those Iranian financial institutions that are designated in connection with Iran’s WMD or terrorism activities and are denoted on OFAC’s List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons ( the SDN list ) with the [IFSR] tag. While E.O. 13599 does block the property of all Iranian financial institutions , that action is not grounded in the authorities that relate to counterproliferation or counterterrorism, and therefore does not implicate CISADA.
Released on February 14, 2012
173. Are there any exceptions to the sanctions provisions in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (as amended) (NDAA for FY 2012)?
Yes.  Section 1245 of the  NDAA for FY 2012 includes an exception that prohibits the President from imposing sanctions “with respect to any person for conducting or facilitating a transaction for the sale of food, medicine, or medical devices to Iran.”
Released on February 14, 2012
174. What are definitions for the following NDAA terms: “significant financial transaction,” “knowingly,” “owned or controlled by the government of a foreign country,” “food, medicine, and medical devices,” “foreign financial institution,” “Iranian financial institution,” “significantly reduced,” and “whether the price and supply of petroleum and petroleum products produced in countries other than Iran is sufficient”?
"significant financial transaction"
The Iranian Financial Sanctions Regulations (IFSR), which implement section 104(c) of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act (CISADA), identify factors to be used in determining what is significant (as it relates to transactions) in 31 C.F.R § 561.404 , which allows the Secretary of the Treasury to consider the “totality of the facts and circumstances” while providing a list of seven broad factors that can play a role in the determination, including: (1) the size, number, and frequency of transactions; (2) the nature of the transaction(s); (3) the level of awareness of management and whether the transaction(s) are part of a pattern of conduct; (4) the nexus between the transaction(s) and a blocked person; (5) the impact of the transaction(s) on statutory objectives; (6) whether the transaction(s) involve deceptive practices; and (7) such other factors that the Secretary deems relevant on a case-by-case basis. Treasury anticipates closely modeling the definition of “significant” for National Defense Authorization Act ( NDAA ) purposes on the IFSR.
We anticipate utilizing a broad definition of “financial transaction” that encompasses “any transfer of value involving a financial institution.” The term “transaction” includes, but is not limited to, the following:
The holding of nostro, vostro, or loro accounts for or with the Central Bank of Iran or designated banks, such as Bank Melli Iran and/or Bank Saderat Iran, including any of their branches or subsidiaries worldwide (collectively the “Listed Parties”);
The provision of trade finance and/or letter of credit services for or with Listed Parties;
The provision of guarantees or similar instruments for or with Listed Parties;
The provision of investment products or instruments for Listed Parties and/or the participation with Listed Parties in investments;
The receipt or origination of wire transfers on behalf of or involving Listed Parties;
The acceptance of commercial paper (both retail and wholesale) drawn on Listed Parties, and the clearance of such paper (including, but not limited to, checks and similar drafts);
The receipt or origination of ACH or ATM transactions with Listed Parties; and/or
Any other transactions for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, Listed Parties and/or with Listed Parties serving as correspondents, respondents, or beneficiaries. That would include transactions where the Listed Parties do not appear on the face of the transaction but where the transaction is undertaken with knowledge of the involvement of a Listed Party based on a relationship that exists through a third party such as a money exchange or trading house.
"knowingly"
The IFSR defines “knowingly” with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a result, to mean that an entity or individual had actual knowledge, or should have known, about the conduct, the circumstance, or the result. 31 C.F.R. § 561.314. Treasury anticipates closely modeling the definition of this term on the IFSR.
“owned or controlled by the government of a foreign country”
The Iranian Transactions Regulations (“ITR”) define “an entity owned or controlled by the Government of Iran” in section 560.313 . Borrowing from that definition, a financial institution “owned or controlled by the government of a foreign country” would be deemed to include a financial institution in which a foreign government owns a 50% or greater interest or which is otherwise controlled by a foreign government. Treasury anticipates closely modeling the definition of this term under the NDAA on the ITR definition.
“food, medicine, and medical devices”
“Food”: The October 2011 general license for the ITR and the Sudanese Sanctions Regulations (“SSR”) authorizing certain food exports to Iran and Sudan defines “food” as “items that are intended to be consumed by and provide nutrition to humans or animals in Iran – including vitamins and minerals, food additives and supplements, and bottled drinking water – and seeds that germinate into items that are intended to be consumed by and provide nutrition to humans or animals in Iran.” The regulations also specify that food does not include alcoholic beverages, cigarettes, gum, or fertilizer. Treasury anticipates closely modeling the definition of this term under the NDAA on this license definition.
“Medicine”: ITR section 560.530 (e)(2) states that: “For the purposes of this part, the term medicine has the same meaning given the term ‘drug’ in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321) but does not include any item listed on the Commerce Control List in the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR part 774, supplement no. 1 (excluding items classified as EAR 99).” Similarly, under the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Act (“TSRA”), 22 U.S.C. 7201(5), “[t]he term ‘medicine’ has the meaning given the term "drug" in section 321 of title 21.” Treasury anticipates closely modeling the definition of this term under the NDAA on the ITR and TSRA.
“Medical Devices”: ITR section 560.530 (e)(3) states that: “For the purposes of this part, the term medical device has the meaning given the term ‘device’ in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. § 321) but does not include any item listed on the Commerce Control List in the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR part 774, supplement no. 1 (excluding items classified as EAR 99).” Similarly, under TSRA, 22 U.S.C. 7201(4), “[t]he term "medical device" has the meaning given the term ‘device’ in section 321 of title 21.” Treasury anticipates closely modeling the definition of this term under the NDAA on the ITR and TSRA.
“foreign financial institution”
“Foreign financial institution” is defined in section 1245 of the NDAA with reference to section 104(i) of CISADA (22 U.S.C. § 8513(i)). As further defined in the IFSR , a “ foreign financial institution ” is “any foreign entity that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes but is not limited to depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money service businesses, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and holding companies, affiliates, or subsidiaries of any of the foregoing.” 31 C.F.R. § 561.308. It does not include “the international financial institutions identified in 22 U.S.C. 262r(c)(2), the International Fund for Agricultural Development, or the North American Development Bank.” 31 C.F.R. § 561.308. Treasury anticipates closely modeling the definition of this term under the NDAA on the IFSR.
“Iranian financial institution”
This term is defined in E.O. 13599 as: “a financial institution organized under the laws of Iran or any jurisdiction within Iran (including foreign branches), any financial institution in Iran, any financial institution, wherever located, owned or controlled by the Government of Iran, and any financial institution, wherever located, owned or controlled by any of the foregoing.” Such financial institutions include, but are not limited to, any foreign entity that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, or commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes but is not limited to depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money service businesses, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and holding companies, affiliates, or subsidiaries of any of the foregoing.
“significantly reduced”
The Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Energy, and the Director of National Intelligence, will make determinations as to whether any country has significantly reduced the volume of Iranian crude oil purchases. Any determinations will be preceded by a process of rigorous due diligence. The Secretary of State intends to consider relevant evidence in assessing each country’s efforts to reduce the volume of crude oil imported from Iran, including the quantity and percentage of the reduction in purchases of Iranian crude oil over the relevant period, termination of contracts for future delivery of Iranian crude oil, and other actions that demonstrate a commitment to substantially decrease such purchases.
“whether the price and supply of petroleum and petroleum products produced in countries other than Iran is sufficient”
The President will make a determination, based on the reports required by subparagraph (A) of Section 1245(d)(4) of the NDAA , as to whether the price and supply of petroleum and petroleum products produced in countries other than Iran is sufficient to permit purchasers of petroleum and petroleum products from Iran to reduce significantly in volume their purchases from Iran.
Released on February 14, 2012
175. What is the scope of “petroleum products” under the law?
As defined by the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA), petroleum products include unfinished oils, liquefied petroleum gases, pentanes plus, aviation gasoline, motor gasoline, naphtha-type jet fuel, kerosene-type jet fuel, kerosene, distillate fuel oil, residual fuel oil, petrochemical feedstocks, special naphthas, lubricants, waxes, petroleum coke, asphalt, road oil, still gas, and miscellaneous products obtained from the processing of crude oil (including lease condensate), natural gas, and other hydrocarbon compounds. In keeping with the EIA’s standard definition, petroleum products do not include natural gas, liquefied natural gas, biofuels, methanol, and other non-petroleum fuels.
Please see National Defense Authorization Act of 2012 as amended for the definition of "law," in this FAQ.
Released on February 14, 2012
176. If oil is being provided as payment for an outstanding debt, is such a transfer considered a “financial transaction”?
If a transfer involves a financial institution it would likely be considered a financial transaction .
Released on February 14, 2012
177. If the Central Bank of Iran (CBI) is involved in providing settlement services for a transaction, or is otherwise acting solely as an intermediary in a transaction between a non-designated Iranian bank and a foreign financial institution, is the foreign financial institution deemed to be engaging in a transaction with the CBI?
Section 1245 targets any significant transactions “with” the CBI; a transaction involving the CBI in an intermediary role would likely be viewed as a transaction “with” the CBI.
Released on February 14, 2012
178. Are barter trades involving the Central Bank of Iran (CBI) considered “financial transactions” under Section 1245?
If a transfer involves a financial institution it would likely be considered a financial transaction .
Released on February 14, 2012
179. Does the definition of “significant financial transaction” exclude the passive holding of Central Bank of Iran (CBI) reserves? Is the U.S. willing to give assurances that this will not be a basis for sanctions?
This will be a case-by-case determination and will require specifics on what “passive holding” entails. As a general matter, we would likely not view the holding of reserves as sanctionable in the following circumstances: the accounts are frozen or restricted, under which the CBI would be allowed to maintain accounts that it had already opened as of December 31, 2011, but would otherwise be unable to direct the disposition of those funds, with ordinary commercial interest payments and routine roll-overs of time deposits under pre-existing instructions being the only new transactions.
Released on February 14, 2012
180. Are payments made under contracts existing prior to the date of enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) statute (December 31, 2011) exempted from the definition of “significant transactions”?
No general exception will be provided for payments arising out of pre-existing contracts. The assessment of whether such payments are “significant” will be done on a case-by-case basis in line with the criteria discussed in FAQ #174 .
Released on February 14, 2012
181. Will the U.S. refrain from sanctioning foreign financial institutions that receive funds from the Central Bank of Iran (CBI) to repay loans? What if these loans were granted for projects that might be subject to the food, medicine, and medical device exemptions under the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA)?
As noted , no general exception will be provided for payments arising out of pre-existing contracts. The assessment of whether such payments are “significant” will be done on a case-by-case basis in line with the criteria discussed in FAQ #174 . Regarding payments for food, medicine, and medical devices, the NDAA does not allow sanctions based on transactions for the sale of food, medicine, or medical devices to Iran. Payments related to the export of broader humanitarian items would be dealt with in our analysis of what constitutes a “significant financial transaction” and would be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Released on February 14, 2012
182. Is there a difference between entities that have been designated by the United States Government for illicit conduct, such as proliferation of weapons of mass destruction or support for terrorism, and those that are being blocked under E.O. 13599? How can I tell which entities appear on the Specially Designated National (SDN) List for which reasons?
Both blocked and designated entities appear on the SDN List .
“Blocked” persons, in the context of E.O. 13599 , appear on the SDN List due to the United States Government’s identification of these entities as the Government of Iran and/or as an Iranian financial institution . Such entities are identified on the SDN List with the tag [IRAN]. For example, Bank Keshavarzi is a Government of Iran owned Iranian financial institution and is identified with the [IRAN] tag. Additionally, the National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC) is a non-financial institution that has been identified as the Government of Iran and bears the [IRAN] tag.
“Designated” persons appear on the SDN List due to the United States Government’s having determined that they meet the criteria set forth in any of a number of other Executive Orders concerning, for example, assisting Iran’s weapons of mass destruction development, or aiding international terrorism and designating them for such activities. Such entities are identified on the SDN List with various tags other than [IRAN], such as [NPWMD] or [SDGT]. For example, Islamic Republic of Iran Shipping Lines is listed as: “IRISL [NPWMD].”
Note that many entries on the SDN List have more than one tag. For example: Bank Saderat Iran has three tags: [SDGT], indicating that it has been sanctioned for providing services to terrorism; [IRAN], indicating that it is the Government of Iran; and [IFSR], referring to the Iranian Financial Sanctions Regulations to signal to third country financial institutions that engage with entities with this tag that they risk sanctions under CISADA.
Released on February 14, 2012
183. Why did the President issue the GHRAVITY E.O.?
The GHRAVITY E.O. follows prior Executive orders issued by the President in response to the commission of human rights abuses by the Governments of Iran and Syria. With the GHRAVITY E.O., the President recognized that the commission of serious human rights abuses against the people of Iran and Syria by their governments, facilitated by computer and network disruption, monitoring, and tracking by those governments, threatens the national security and foreign policy of the United States. The GHRAVITY E.O. targets this activity in order to deter and disrupt such abuses.
Released on April 23, 2012
184. What does the GHRAVITY E.O. do?
The GHRAVITY E.O. blocks (i.e., freezes) the property and interests in property of, among others, any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with or at the recommendation of the Secretary of State, (1) to have operated, or to have directed the operation of, information and communications technology that facilitates computer or network disruption, monitoring, or tracking that could assist in or enable serious human rights abuses by or on behalf of the Government of Iran or the Government of Syria; or (2) to have sold, leased, or otherwise provided, directly or indirectly, goods, services, or technology to Iran or Syria likely to be used to facilitate such activities.
U.S. persons in possession of property or interests in property belonging to persons listed in the Annex to the GHRAVITY E.O., or designated in the future by Treasury under the E.O., are obligated to block the property and report the blocking to OFAC within 10 days of blocking. Entities that are 50% or more owned by persons blocked by the GHRAVITY E.O. are also blocked, regardless of whether such entities appear on the Annex or OFAC’s list of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons (“ SDN list ”).
Released on April 23, 2012
185. What type of activities does the GHRAVITY E.O. target?
The GHRAVITY E.O. targets the provision and use of information and communications technology to facilitate computer or network disruption, monitoring, or tracking that could assist in or enable serious human rights abuses by or on behalf of the Government of Iran or the Government of Syria. It is not intended to block exports of technology that enable the Syrian and Iranian people to freely communicate among themselves and with the outside world.
“Information and communications technology” means any hardware, software, or other product or service primarily intended to fulfill or enable the function of information processing and communication by electronic means, including transmission and display, including via the Internet.
Released on April 23, 2012
186. How do I know that a person has been designated under the GHRAVITY E.O.?
Persons designated under the GHRAVITY E.O. appear on the publicly available Specially Designated Nationals List ( SDN list ) bearing the [HRIT] tag. U.S. persons are obligated to block property involving the persons bearing the tag [HRIT] on the SDN list, unless the transaction is exempt or otherwise authorized by OFAC.
Released on April 23, 2012
187. Does the GHRAVITY E.O. prohibit me from exporting technology to companies that do business with Iran or Syria?
This E.O. does not generally prohibit transactions involving persons that do business with Iran or Syria, unless the person has been designated pursuant to this order. You should consult with the Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) regarding exports to companies that do business with Syria.
Released on April 23, 2012
188. If I am a non-U.S. company that exports information and communications technology to Iran or Syria, will I be designated under the GHRAVITY E.O.?
The measures in this order are designed primarily to address the need to prevent entities located in whole or in part in Iran and Syria from facilitating or committing serious human rights abuses. These measures are not designed to prevent the provision of information and communications technology necessary to enable the Iranian and Syrian people to freely communicate with each other and the outside world. That said, those providing communications technology to Iran or Syria that has the potential to facilitate computer or network disruption, monitoring, or tracking should exercise great caution given Iran and Syria’s use of this technology to assist in the commission of serious human rights abuses.
Released on April 23, 2012
189. Would I need authorization from OFAC or BIS if I wanted to export goods or technology to persons blocked under the GHRAVITY E.O.?
Yes. For more information regarding exports of goods or technology to persons blocked under the GHRAVITY E.O. please contact OFAC or BIS.
Released on April 23, 2012
190. Are existing licenses issued by the U.S. Government involving persons designated under the GHRAVITY E.O. still valid?
U.S. persons who have been issued licenses involving persons designated under the GHRAVITY E.O. should check with the issuing agency regarding the validity of their licenses.
Released on April 23, 2012
191. What does Executive Order 13608 “Prohibiting Certain Transactions with and Suspending Entry into the United States of Foreign Sanctions Evaders with Respect to Iran and Syria” do?
This Executive Order gives Treasury new authorities. First, it strengthens Treasury’s ability to address behavior by foreign individuals and entities determined to have violated, attempted to violate, conspired to violate, or caused a violation of U.S. sanctions on Syria or Iran. This E.O. also gives Treasury the authority to impose sanctions on foreign persons who have facilitated deceptive transactions for or on behalf of persons subject to U.S. sanctions.
Transactions by U.S. persons or within the United States involving persons sanctioned under this authority are prohibited, effectively cutting the listed persons off from the U.S. marketplace and financial system. By cutting off access to the U.S. marketplace and financial system to such sanctions evaders, Executive Order 13608 provides Treasury with a powerful tool to prevent and deter such behavior and to hold such persons accountable and to convince them to change their behavior. Publicly identifying such persons will also allow U.S. persons to avoid unwittingly engaging in transactions with identified foreign persons that may expose U.S. persons to the risk of sanctions violations.
Released on May 1, 2012
192. Why was this authority needed?
Executive Order 13608 expands Treasury’s ability to address the behavior of foreign persons determined to have violated or attempted to violate U.S. sanctions on Syria or Iran, or to have facilitated deceptive transactions on behalf of persons subject to those sanctions, where the foreign person had no physical, financial, or other presence in the United States and did not submit to U.S. administrative proceedings. Treasury may use this authority where it appears that a foreign person violated U.S. sanctions on Iran or Syria but may not meet criteria for designation under existing Executive Orders. Executive Order 13608 will provide a means through which Treasury can limit the risk to U.S. commercial and financial systems posed by foreign persons determined to have violated U.S. sanctions on Iran or Syria, or to have engaged in deceptive transactions for or on behalf of persons subject to U.S. sanctions on Iran or Syria.
Such a listing under Executive Order 13608 also provides Treasury with the capability to put the world on notice as to such foreign persons’ activity and the risk of similar future activity. Such identification will help prevent U.S. persons from unwittingly engaging in transactions with foreign persons that may pose a risk of sanctions violations.
Released on May 1, 2012
193. What are the repercussions of an individual or entity being identified under Executive Order 13608?
If an individual or entity is made subject to sanctions under this authority , U.S. persons generally may no longer provide to or procure from such individual or entity any goods, services, or technology. From a practical standpoint, it means that the sanctioned individual or entity will be cut off from the U.S. commercial and financial systems.
Released on May 1, 2012
194. Are U.S. persons required to block the property of individuals and entities identified under Executive Order 13608?
No. Identifications or listings under Executive Order 13608 do not block any assets. However, a U.S. person may not provide or procure goods or services, including financial services, or technology to or from a listed person without authorization from OFAC, unless the transaction is otherwise exempt from regulation under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (e.g., certain travel-related transactions).
Released on May 1, 2012
195. I am a financial institution. What do I do if I receive a wire transfer involving a listed party?
Context Information: This FAQ is associated with Executive Order 13608 .
A U.S. financial institution must reject any wire transfer involving a listed person and file a report with OFAC within 10 days.
Released on May 1, 2012
196. I am a financial institution and I hold an account for a listed person. What do I do with the funds?
Context Information: This FAQ is associated with  Executive Order 13608 .
The account is not blocked; however, it is restricted and you cannot allow it to be operated without authorization from OFAC.
Released on May 1, 2012
197. What are U.S. persons obligated to do with property of a person listed under Executive Order 13608?
Property of an Executive Order 13608 -listed person is not blocked, but U.S. persons must have authorization from OFAC to provide or procure such property to or from a listed person, or to provide or procure services to or from a listed person in connection with such property. Additionally, wire transfers involving the assets of an Executive Order 13608-listed person must be rejected.
Released on May 1, 2012
198. May a U.S. person deal with an Executive Order 13608-listed person so long as the dealing does not involve Iran or Syria?
No. U.S. persons are prohibited from all transactions or dealings described in Executive Order 13608 with persons listed under Executive Order 13608, unless authorized by OFAC or where the transaction is otherwise exempt from regulation under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act .
Released on May 1, 2012
199. How is an identification or listing under Executive Order 13608 different from a designation?
Like a designation, a U.S. person is prohibited, unless authorized by OFAC or if the underlying transaction is exempt from regulation under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act , from dealing with an identified or listed person. Unlike a blocking designation, the property and the interests in property of a person listed under Executive Order 13608 are not blocked.
Released on May 1, 2012
200. How is this different from lists maintained by the Department of Commerce?
Treasury's authority under Executive Order 13608 has some similarities to Commerce's authority under the Export Administration Regulations ("EAR"). Commerce may impose denial orders on persons (both foreign and U.S.) who have committed violations of the EAR or present an imminent risk of committing a violation. These individuals or organizations are listed on Commerce's Denied Persons List. It is prohibited to deal with Denied Persons in any export transaction involving items (commodities, software, and technology) subject to the EAR. Treasury’s authority under Executive Order 13608 complements Commerce's authority by addressing at least two types of sanctions violations that are outside the scope of the EAR. Specifically, Treasury may prohibit the provision of services (in addition to goods and technology) to or from identified or listed persons and Treasury may prohibit transactions or dealings involving goods and technology that are not subject to the EAR. However, unlike Commerce's authority, Treasury's authority to sanction or list an individual or entity under Executive Order 13608 may be implemented only with respect to foreign individuals or entities.
Released on May 1, 2012
201. May a U.S. person deal with a person listed under Executive Order 13608 in a transaction that was previously licensed by OFAC?
No. U.S. persons cannot have any dealings with a person identified or listed under this Executive Order absent specific authorization from OFAC pursuant to the Executive Order 13608 , unless the transaction is exempt from regulation under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act .
Released on May 1, 2012
202. What if the transaction is already underway?
If a transaction is underway at the time of an Executive Order 13608-listing, a U.S. person must cease dealing with the listed person and the U.S. person is prohibited from engaging in transactions or dealings in or related to any goods, services, or technology to or from the listed person, unless the transaction is exempt under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act , or until such time that OFAC authorizes the transactions pursuant to the Executive Order 13608 . Additionally, if the transaction underway involves a wire transfer, a U.S. financial institution must reject it and file a report with OFAC within 10 days.
Like all of its programs, OFAC has the authority under Executive Order 13608 to license transactions that are consistent with U.S. foreign policy.
Released on May 1, 2012
203. Can a U.S. person use a listed person to facilitate personal remittances to or from Iran or Syria?
Context Information: This FAQ is associated with  Executive Order 13608 .
No. Without specific authorization from OFAC, U.S. persons cannot use a listed person to process personal remittances.
Released on May 1, 2012
204. Will Treasury pursue an enforcement action before identifying or listing a person pursuant to Executive Order 13608?
The authorities granted under this Executive Order are in addition to current authorities that Treasury has to pursue an enforcement action for violations of U.S. law, and Treasury is not required to pursue a civil enforcement action prior to identifying or listing a person pursuant to Executive Order 13608.
Released on May 1, 2012
207. What were the criteria for Treasury's CISADA finding against Bank of Kunlun? How many other institutions were you looking at and why did you decide to take action against Bank of Kunlun?
Based on information made available to the Treasury Department, the Department has found that China's Bank of Kunlun has knowingly facilitated significant transactions for various Iranian-linked banks designated by the United States under our WMD or terrorism authorities.
Upon finding that Bank of Kunlun was knowingly engaged in these activities that are sanctionable under the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act (CISADA), the Secretary of the Treasury has prohibited U.S. banks from opening or maintaining correspondent accounts or payable-through accounts in the United States for Bank of Kunlun – effectively cutting off Bank of Kunlun's direct access to the U.S. financial system.
Since CISADA was signed into law in July 2010, Treasury has engaged with over 120 financial institutions and bank regulators in more than 60 countries all over the world to brief them on the financial provisions of CISADA, and, in cases where we had specific concerns, has shared information about those concerns.
This global engagement campaign has proven highly successful, as we have seen the overwhelming majority of financial institutions with which we have engaged change their business practices – even close any correspondent accounts with U.S. designated Iranian banks – to ensure that their access to the U.S. financial system is not put at risk.
The July 31, 2012 action against Bank of Kunlun was in response to its ongoing relationships with U.S.-designated Iranian banks.
Note: The Treasury Department had also made a CISADA finding against Iraq's Elaf Islamic Bank on July 31, 2012. On May 17, 2013, Elaf Islamic Bank was delisted and its name was removed from the Part 561 List .
Released on May 17, 2013
208. How are you defining “significant” transactions and financial services?
In determining whether transactions or financial services are significant , the Secretary of the Treasury may consider a number of factors related to the transactions or services, including, but not limited to: size, number, and frequency; type, complexity and commercial purpose; the level of awareness or involvement by the bank’s management; whether the activity or payment illustrates a pattern of practice or is an isolated event; the ultimate economic benefit conferred upon the designated person(s); and whether the transactions involved the use of deceptive financial practices to obscure the identities of the parties involved.
Bank of Kunlun
Bank of Kunlun has provided hundreds of millions of dollars’ worth of services to U.S. designated Iranian banks. These financial services include maintaining accounts, transferring payments, and serving as the paying bank for letters of credit opened by U.S. designated Iranian banks. The facilitation of hundreds of millions of U.S. dollars worth of transactions with U.S. designated Iranian banks over the past year is significant.
In 2012, after Treasury designated Bank Tejarat, Bank of Kunlun transferred hundreds of payments totaling approximately $100 million dollars for accounts it holds for Bank Tejarat and made a payment for an IRGC affiliate pursuant to a letter of credit opened by Bank Tejarat.
Released on May 17, 2013
209. What happens to the correspondent and payable-through accounts held by Bank of Kunlun in the United States?
Context Information: This FAQ is associated with the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (CISADA) .
To our knowledge, Bank of Kunlun does not currently hold correspondent accounts with U.S. financial institutions.
The July 31, 2012 action prohibits financial institutions in the United States from opening or maintaining correspondent or payable-through accounts for Bank of Kunlun.
Released on May 17, 2013
210. What are the consequences for a U.S. financial institution that maintains or opens a new correspondent or payable-through account for Bank of Kunlun?
Context Information: This FAQ is associated with the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (CISADA) .
A U.S. financial institution that maintains or opens a correspondent or payable-through account for Bank of Kunlun is subject to civil penalties in the amount of up to $250,000 or twice the value of the transaction, whichever is greater.
Criminal penalties of up to $1 million can be imposed for willful violations, and individuals who willfully violate the prohibition can face up to 20 years in prison.
Released on May 17, 2013
211. If a foreign financial institution continues to do business with Bank of Kunlun, could that lead to a CISADA finding against the other institution?
Context Information: This FAQ is associated with the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (CISADA) .
Any foreign financial institution that knowingly facilitates significant transactionson behalf of designated Iranian banks – whether directly or indirectly – may face Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act (CISADA) sanctions. OFAC defines " knowingly " in this context as meaning the financial institution knew or should have known of the conduct, circumstance, or result. Bank of Kunlun has demonstrated its willingness to move hundreds of millions dollars on behalf of designated Iranian banks. Accordingly, we would expect heightened due diligence in any dealings with Bank of Kunlun.
Released on May 17, 2013
212. Does this finding affect Bank of Kunlun's branches or subsidiaries around the world? Does this finding affect any holding companies?
Context Information: This FAQ is associated with the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (CISADA) .
The prohibitions implemented as a result of today's action apply to Bank of Kunlun and all of its offices, around the world.
Released on May 17, 2013
213. Are United States financial institutions that do not hold correspondent or payable-through accounts for Bank of Kunlun required to block or reject transactions that otherwise involve Bank of Kunlun?
Context Information: This FAQ is associated with the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (CISADA) .
No. U.S. financial institutions are not required to block or reject financial or trade transactions that involve Bank of Kunlun.
That said, we would expect heightened due diligence in any dealings with Bank of Kunlun given its demonstrated willingness to facilitate transactions on behalf of Iranian banks designated by well over a dozen countries worldwide.
Released on May 17, 2013
214. What is the licensing process for U.S. financial institutions that need to conduct transactions in order to close correspondent or payable-through accounts with a foreign financial institution sanctioned pursuant to the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act (CISADA)?
Context Information: This FAQ is associated with the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (CISADA) .
Treasury regulations provide a 10-day period in which U.S. financial institutions are authorized to engage in the transactions necessary to close an affected account. If a U.S. financial institution that is in the process of closing an affected account seeks to engage in transactions beyond those already authorized, Treasury may issue specific licenses on a case-by-case basis.
Released on May 17, 2013
215. What is the difference, in practical effect, between this and a designation under one of your other authorities, like E.O. 13382?
The July 31, 2012 Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act (CISADA) finding prohibits the opening or maintaining of correspondent accounts or payable-through accounts in the United States for Bank of Kunlun. This action does not require the immediate freezing of any assets that Bank of Kunlun may hold within U.S. jurisdiction.
Released on May 17, 2013
233. Isn’t the National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC) already subject to sanctions?
Yes. Executive Order 13622 provides for sanctions on foreign financial institutions found to have knowingly conducted or facilitated significant financial transactions with NIOC (except for sales of refined petroleum products to NIOC that fall below the dollar threshold that could trigger sanctions under the Iran Sanctions Act ). Executive Order 13622 also provides authority for the Secretary of the Treasury to block the property and interests in property of persons determined to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of, NIOC (as well as other specified entities). Note, however, that these sanctions are not applicable to certain transactions related to the Shah Deniz pipeline project, in which NIOC has a minority stake, under Executive Order 13622. In addition, NIOC was already blocked as an entity of the Government of Iran under   E.O. 13599 , which was issued pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA), as amended, among other authorities. Nevertheless, as described below , the determination that NIOC is an agent or affiliate of the IRGC carries consequences.
234. What is the effect of the National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC) determination? Are there CISADA implications?
As a result of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act (TRA) section 312 determination, NIOC now is also a person described under section 104(c)(2)(E)(i) of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (CISADA) as an agent or affiliate of the IRGC whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to IEEPA . This means that foreign financial institutions determined to knowingly facilitate significant transactions or provide significant financial services for NIOC are exposed to CISADA sanctions, including prohibitions or the imposition of strict conditions on the opening or maintaining of correspondent or payable-through accounts in the United States.
In addition, section 302 of TRA requires sanctions on foreign persons determined to have knowingly provided certain material support to, or engaged in significant transactions with, the IRGC or its officials, agents, or affiliates whose property or interest in property are blocked. Consequently, foreign persons that knowingly engage in significant transactions with NIOC after the September 24, 2012 determination could be exposed to sanctions.
An “IRGC” identifier will be added to NIOC’s entry on the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List available on OFAC’s website.
As noted below , the potential application of sanctions under section 104(c)(2)(E)(i) of CISADA and section 302 of TRA is affected by whether the country with primary jurisdiction has received a significant reduction exception from the Secretary of State.
235. What are the implications for petroleum purchase transactions involving NIOC by financial institutions and entities in countries that have received a significant reduction exception from the Secretary of State?
Significant transactions, financial services, or material support involving National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC) for the purchase of Iranian petroleum or petroleum products by a foreign financial institution or entity based in a country that has received a significant reduction exception from the Secretary of State do not carry potential sanctions consequences – under the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act (CISADA), sections 302 and 312 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act (TRA), section 1245 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (NDAA), or sections 1 and 2 of Executive Order 13622 . Sections 302 and 312 of TRA authorize the President not to impose sanctions for the purchase of petroleum or petroleum products from Iran if an exception under subsection 1245(d)(4)(D) of the NDAA applies to the country with primary jurisdiction over the foreign financial institution at the time of the transactions or the provision of services. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any significant transaction for other sanctioned entities (such as Iranian designated banks or other persons described in section 104(c)(2)(E) of CISADA) may result in sanctions, regardless of whether the transaction is for the purchase of petroleum or petroleum products and involves NIOC.
236. Does the determination regarding the National Iranian Tanker Company (NITC) mean that there is no affiliation between NITC and the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC)?
This statement means only that, based on the currently available information, Treasury is not able to determine at this time that NITC is an agent or affiliate of the IRGC.
237. How does the effect of this determination compare to the effect of section 1(a) of Executive Order 13622 as to transactions with National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC)?
The effect of the determination is similar to the effect of Executive Order 13622 section 1(a), which provides for prohibitions on the opening of and prohibitions or strict conditions on maintaining correspondent accounts or payable-through accounts in the United States for foreign financial institutions determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to have knowingly conducted or facilitated significant financial transactions with NIOC. Executive Order 13622 likewise contains an exception that covers transactions with NIOC conducted or facilitated by foreign financial institutions based in NDAA-excepted jurisdictions. A significant difference between these authorities is that the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) exception in the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act (TRA) section 312 is limited to transactions or financial services for the purchase of petroleum or petroleum products from Iran.
241. What are the major changes that the Iranian Transaction and Sanctions Regulations (ITSR) implement in superseding the Iranian Transaction Regulations (ITR)?
The ITSR block the property and interests in property of the Government of Iran and all Iranian financial institutions that come within the possession or control of any U.S. person, including any foreign branch, and prohibit all U.S. persons from dealing with any property interests whatsoever, present, future, or contingent, of persons identified as already blocked pursuant to E.O. 13599 and the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) .
OFAC is adding section 560.211 to the ITSR to implement the blocking prohibitions set forth in E.O. 13599 and the NDAA. New sections 560.212 through 560.214 are being added to set forth certain consequences and requirements that stem from the blocking prohibitions, including, inter alia, the requirement to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts. New paragraphs (e) and (f) are being added to section 560.210 to incorporate two exemptions from the blocking prohibitions that are set forth in E.O. 13599. These exemptions concern the official business of the Federal Government and the property and interests in property of the Government of Iran that were blocked pursuant to Executive Order 12170 of November 14, 1979.
Released on October 22, 2012
242. The ITSR includes revisions to the ITR pertaining to the transfer of funds to or from Iran. Accordingly, how may I transfer funds to or from Iran that arise from, and are ordinarily incident and necessary to give effect to, an underlying transaction that is authorized under the ITSR?
The Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations (ITSR) authorize United States depository institutions to process transfers of funds to or from Iran, or for the direct or indirect benefit of persons in Iran or the Government of Iran , if the transfer arises from, and is ordinarily incident and necessary to give effect to, an underlying transaction that has been authorized by a specific or general license issued pursuant to, or set forth in, the ITSR and does not involve debiting or crediting an Iranian account. See 31 CFR 560.516(a) .
In addition, the ITSR authorize United States registered brokers or dealers in securities to process transfers of funds to or from Iran, or for the direct or indirect benefit of persons in Iran or the Government of Iran, if the transfer arises from, and is ordinarily incident and necessary to give effect to, an underlying transaction that has been authorized by a specific or general license issued pursuant to, or set forth in, the ITSR and does not involve debiting or crediting an Iranian account. See 31 CFR 560.516(b).
The authorizations set forth in section 560.516 of the ITSR do not allow a U.S. person who is authorized to engage in the underlying transaction to deal directly with money service businesses (MSBs) or hawalas, wherever located. However, these authorizations do not preclude United States depository institutions or United States registered brokers or dealers in securities from engaging or dealing with third-country MSBs or hawalas in the processing of the authorized transfers pursuant to section 560.516 of the ITSR.
Released on October 22, 2012
243. How can I send personal remittances to or from Iran under the Iranian Transaction and Sanctions Regulations (ITSR)?
The ITSR authorize the transfer of funds that are noncommercial and personal in nature to or from Iran or for or on behalf of an individual ordinarily resident in Iran, other than an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211 , subject to certain restrictions and limitations. See 31 CFR 560.550 . Such transfers must be processed by a United States depository institution or a United States registered broker or dealer in securities and not by any other U.S. person. The personal remittances general license does not permit a U.S. person to deal directly with money service businesses (MSBs) or hawalas, wherever located. However, this general license does not preclude United States depository institutions or United States registered brokers or dealers in securities from engaging or dealing with third-country MSBs or hawalas in the processing of the authorized transfers pursuant to section 560.550 of the ITSR.
The hand-carrying of certain noncommercial, personal remittances is also authorized, provided that the individual who is a U.S. person is hand-carrying the funds on his or her behalf, but not on behalf of another person. See 31 CFR 560.550.
Released on October 22, 2012
244. What effect will the Iranian Transaction and Sanctions Regulations (ITSR) have on Iranian-Americans and the people of Iran?
The ITSR include several general licenses that newly authorize, or continue to authorize, activities that are otherwise prohibited by the regulations. Categories of activities affected by these changes include, among other things, visa-related transactions, journalistic activities in Iran, the sale of real property in Iran and the transfer of related proceeds to the United States, educational activities (including certain exchange programs), participation in conferences, and the exportation and reexportation of medicine and basic medical supplies to Iran.
Released on October 22, 2012
245. What does the Statement of Licensing Procedure on Support of Human Rights-, Humanitarian-, and Democracy-Related Activities with Respect to Iran do?
The Statement of Licensing Procedure reflects procedures established pursuant to section 413 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act (the TRA). These procedures stipulate that, as of the effective date of the TRA, license determinations for complete requests for authorization under this policy shall be made not later than 90 days after receipt by OFAC, with certain exceptions. The Statement of Licensing Policy applies to applications submitted by the following categories of U.S. persons seeking to engage in certain human rights-, humanitarian-, and democracy-related activities with respect to Iran: (1) entities receiving funds from the Department of State to engage in the proposed activity; (2) the Broadcasting Board of Governors; and (3) other appropriate agencies of the United States Government. The ITSR also include separate statements of licensing policy related to the sharing of information over the Internet in Iran and the support of democracy and human rights in Iran and academic and cultural exchange programs.
Released on October 22, 2012
254. What does section 504 of the TRA do?
Pursuant to the restrictions already in place under the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), foreign financial institutions (“FFIs”) face restrictions on, or loss of, correspondent and payable-through account access in the United States if they knowingly engage in significant financial transactions with the Central Bank of Iran (“CBI”) or a designated Iranian financial institution, unless an NDAA exception, such as the significant reduction exception, applies. The NDAA significant reduction exception applies if the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury and other agencies, has determined that the country with primary jurisdiction over the FFI has significantly reduced its purchases of Iranian crude oil during a specified period of time.
Effective February 6, 2013, section 504 amends the NDAA in several ways. Most importantly, it narrows the NDAA’s significant reduction exception to (a) exempt from sanctions only transactions that conduct or facilitate bilateral trade in goods or services between the country granted the exception and Iran, and (b) require that funds owed to Iran as a result of the bilateral trade be credited to an account located in the country granted the exception and not be repatriated to Iran. In addition, it -
(i) eliminates the distinction between state-owned or -controlled FFIs (not including foreign central banks) and private FFIs, thereby expanding the scope of sanctionable transactions for state-owned or -controlled FFIs with the CBI or designated Iranian financial institutions; and
(ii) clarifies that countries that have reduced their Iranian crude oil purchases to zero may continue to receive the significant reduction exception.
The sale of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices to Iran (the “Humanitarian Exception”) is not impacted by section 504 of the TRA.
The purchase or acquisition of petrochemicals from Iran remain sanctionable activities and are not subject to the significant reduction exception.
Released on February 6, 2013
255. Do the section 504 modifications of the TRA restrict any other dealings with Iran?
Yes, the section 504 modifications also narrow the scope of transactions excepted from certain sanctions available under E.O. 13622 . Accordingly, foreign financial institutions (FFIs) in countries that are determined by the Secretary of State to have significantly reduced their purchases of Iranian crude oil pursuant to the NDAA , that knowingly conduct significant financial transactions with the National Iranian Oil Company (“NIOC”), the Naftiran Intertrade Company (“NICO”), or otherwise for the purchase of petroleum or petroleum products from Iran, are only eligible for the significant reduction exception if the FFIs adhere to the bilateral trade restrictions, credit the funds to an account in the country with primary jurisdiction over the FFI, and do not repatriate the funds to Iran.
Example 1: A FFI in a country which has received a significant reduction exception and with primary jurisdiction over the FFI may facilitate a transaction enabling an oil refinery in that country to purchase crude oil from Iran without having exposure to U.S. correspondent account sanctions, so long as the transaction meets section 504’s bilateral trade requirements, the funds are credited to an account in the FFI in the country with primary jurisdiction over the FFI, and the funds are not repatriated to Iran.
Example 2: If, however, a FFI in a country which has received a significant reduction exception facilitates a third country’s crude oil purchase – even a third country with a significant reduction exception – from Iran, the FFI would have exposure to sanctions because the transaction was not solely for the FFI host country’s purchase of crude oil from Iran.
Released on February 6, 2013
256. What transactions are impacted by section 504 of the TRA as it amends section 1245 of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2012?
Significant financial transactions* knowingly conducted or facilitated by a foreign financial institution (FFI) with the Central Bank of Iran (CBI) on or after November 5, 2018 or with a designated Iranian financial institution may be subject to sanctions under the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) and section 561.203 of the Iranian Financial Sanctions Regulations (IFSR), 31 C.F.R. Part 561, unless –
(i) the country that has primary jurisdiction over the FFI conducting or facilitating such significant financial transactions has received a significant reduction exception under section 1245(d)(4)(D) of the NDAA; and
(ii) the significant financial transaction is for bilateral trade only, and any funds owed to Iran as a result of such trade are credited to an account at the FFI in the country that has primary jurisdiction over the FFI and are not repatriated to Iran.
However, any FFI that knowingly facilitates significant transactions or provides significant financial services for persons designated in connection with Iran’s support for international terrorism or the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction pursuant to E.O.s 13224 or 13382 can be sanctioned under section 104(c) of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (“CISADA”) and section 561.201 of the Iranian Financial Sanctions Regulations (IFSR) , even if those transactions are not sanctionable under section 1245(d) of the NDAA, section 561.203 of the IFSR , sections 1244 and 1247 of the Iran Freedom and Counter-Proliferation Act of 2012, and Executive Order 13846 for countries that receive an SRE.
* These do not include sales relating to the Humanitarian Exception.
Released on November 5, 2018
257. To which jurisdictions does the significant reduction exception apply (section 504 of the TRA)?
As of February 6, 2013, 20 jurisdictions have been granted a 180-day significant reduction exception .
The following jurisdictions received their 180-day significant reduction exception to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) sanctions on September 14, 2012: Belgium, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Poland, Spain, and the United Kingdom.
The following jurisdictions received their 180-day significant reduction exception to NDAA sanctions on December 7, 2012: China, India, Malaysia, Republic of Korea, Singapore, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, and Turkey.
Released on February 6, 2013
258. What is meant by the TRA section 504’s requirement that bilateral trade consist of trade in goods and services between the country with primary jurisdiction over the foreign financial institution (FFI) and Iran?
OFAC interprets bilateral trade between Iran and the country with primary jurisdiction over the FFI to mean trade in only those goods or services originating in (e.g., produced in or substantially transformed in) –
(i) the country with primary jurisdiction over the FFI conducting or facilitating the transaction, or
(ii) Iran (for purposes of the import of Iranian-origin goods or services by the country with primary jurisdiction over the FFI),
and the trade in services cannot include brokering transactions involving goods or services from or to third countries.
Furthermore, the goods or services must be exported and sold directly to either the country with primary jurisdiction over the FFI (in the case of Iranian-origin goods or services), or Iran (in the case of goods or services originating in the country with primary jurisdiction over the FFI).
The Humanitarian Exception is not impacted by section 504 ’s bilateral trade limitations (see FAQ 265 ).
Released on February 6, 2013
259. What can a foreign financial institution (FFI) do with the funds resulting from the import of Iranian-origin goods or services once the funds are credited to an account? Can funds be transferred to other accounts?
Section 504 of the TRA requires that, in order for a sanctionable transaction to fall within the bounds of the significant reduction exception , any funds owed to Iran as a result of the bilateral trade transaction must be credited to an "account located in the country with primary jurisdiction over the [FFI]." For purposes of implementing this requirement, OFAC interprets the "account located in the country with primary jurisdiction over the [FFI]" to be an account in the country with primary jurisdiction over the FFI, and at the same FFI that facilitated the transaction for the importation of goods or services from Iran.
Once the funds are deposited in the FFI, they can be -
used to pay for a purchase by Iran of goods or services originating in the country with primary jurisdiction over the FFI which are exported and sold directly to Iran, or for the Humanitarian Exception (see Figure 1); or
transferred to a SPECIAL PURPOSE ACCOUNT (see FAQ 260 ) within that same FFI, in the country with primary jurisdiction over the FFI, where the funds may be later debited to purchase goods or services originating in the country with primary jurisdiction over the FFI which are exported and sold directly to Iran, or for the Humanitarian Exception (see Figure 2).
The funds may not be repatriated to Iran.
Released on February 6, 2013
260. What is a SPECIAL PURPOSE ACCOUNT for purposes of the National Defense Authorization Act's (NDAA) significant reduction exception?
A SPECIAL PURPOSE ACCOUNT is an account set up with conditions and safeguards that require the account to be used only for bilateral trade in goods or services between Iran and the country with primary jurisdiction over the FFI , and for sales made under the Humanitarian Exception (see FAQ 265 ). Funds paid as a result of bilateral trade under the NDAA’s significant reduction exception may be transferred to a SPECIAL PURPOSE ACCOUNT, so long as the account is at the same FFI that facilitated or conducted the original transaction, in the country with primary jurisdiction over the FFI.
Released on February 6, 2013
261. Are there any circumstances in which funds can be transferred to third-country financial institutions?
Transfers on or after February 6, 2013, of funds deposited in the RECIPIENT ACCOUNT or the SPECIAL PURPOSE ACCOUNT to third-country financial institutions are not covered by the National Defense Authorization Act's ( NDAA ) significant reduction exception , and create exposure to sanctions for FFI s conducting or facilitating such transfers, unless the transfer is to pay a third-country exporter for sales made pursuant to the Humanitarian Exception (see FAQ 265 ).
Released on February 6, 2013
262. Can funds be withdrawn from the RECIPIENT ACCOUNT or a SPECIAL PURPOSE ACCOUNT?
In order for the National Defense Authorization Act's ( NDAA ) significant reduction exception to apply on or after February 6, 2013, funds withdrawn from the RECIPIENT ACCOUNT or SPECIAL PURPOSE ACCOUNT at the FFI may only be used to pay for bilateral trade or purchases relating to the Humanitarian Exception. Cash withdrawals from the RECIPIENT ACCOUNT or SPECIAL PURPOSE ACCOUNT would be deemed to fall outside of the scope of bilateral trade and would expose the FFI to sanctions. Bank checks written on the account may be used only to pay for bilateral trade or purchases relating to the Humanitarian Exception, and are subject to further restrictions set out in FAQ 263 below.
Released on February 6, 2013
263. Who can receive payments from funds credited to a RECIPIENT ACCOUNT or SPECIAL PURPOSE ACCOUNT?
In order for the National Defense Authorization Act's ( NDAA ) significant reduction exception to apply on or after February 6, 2013, the person receiving payment (e.g., the manufacturer or service provider) for goods or services being exported to Iran must be –
(i) a citizen, national, or permanent resident of the country with primary jurisdiction over the FFI maintaining the accounts containing the bilateral trade funds; or
(ii) an entity organized under the laws of the country with primary jurisdiction over the FFI maintaining such accounts.
Furthermore, the person receiving such payment may not be -
(i) the Government of Iran (as defined in 31 CFR Part 561.321 ) (“GOI”);* or
(ii) a financial institution that appears on the List of Foreign Financial Institutions Subject to Part 561 , which is maintained on the Office of Foreign Assets Control’s Web site ( https://ofac.treasury.gov ).
*The term “Government of Iran” as defined in 31 CFR Part 561.321 includes: (a) The state and the Government of Iran, as well as any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof; (b) Any entity owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the foregoing; (c) Any person to the extent that such person is, or has been, or to the extent that there is reasonable cause to believe that such person is, or has been, acting or purporting to act directly or indirectly on behalf of any of the foregoing; and (d) Any person or entity identified by the Secretary of the Treasury to be the Government of Iran under 31 CFR Part 560.
Released on February 6, 2013
264. Can funds be remitted to Iran or the Government of Iran (GOI) without exposure to sanctions?
No. If funds from the RECIPIENT ACCOUNT or the SPECIAL PURPOSE ACCOUNT are remitted, directly or indirectly, to Iran, or paid to any person that is the GOI , the FFI would be exposed to sanctions.
Released on February 6, 2013
265. Can the funds be used for sales made under the Humanitarian Exception?
The National Defense Authorization Act of Fiscal Year 2012 (NDAA) generally exempts from sanctions sales made under the Humanitarian Exception (i.e., the sale of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices from third countries to Iran). Funds deposited in the RECIPIENT ACCOUNT or the SPECIAL PURPOSE ACCOUNT can be used to pay for sales made pursuant to the Humanitarian Exception
Released on February 6, 2013
266. Does the November 8, 2012 designation of National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC) under E.O. 13382 impact the scope of permissible transactions by foreign financial institutions (FFIs) in significantly reducing countries?
Yes. On September 24, 2012, NIOC was identified as an agent or affiliate of Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (“IRGC”) under section 312 of the TRA , and designated on November 8, 2012, under E.O. 13382 for providing services and support to the IRGC. Accordingly, the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act (CISADA) applies to transactions with NIOC. As a result of these additional sanctions against NIOC, only transactions solely for the purchase of petroleum or petroleum products from NIOC will fall within the scope of the significant reduction exception. A FFI  in a significantly reducing country that is found to knowingly conduct or facilitate other types of significant transactions with NIOC (i.e., transactions unrelated to the purchase of petroleum or petroleum products from Iran) would face exposure to CISADA sanctions.
Example 3 : If a FFI in a country with a significant reduction exception facilitates a transaction enabling a company in that country to purchase drilling equipment from NIOC, the FFI risks restrictions on, or loss of, correspondent and payable-through account access in the United States, because the transaction was not solely for the purchase of petroleum or petroleum products from Iran.
Released on February 6, 2013
267. What are definitions for the following NDAA terms: “significant financial transaction,” “knowingly,” “food, medicine, and medical devices,” “foreign financial institution,” and “country with primary jurisdiction over the FFI”?
These definitions are set out in 31 CFR Part 561 .
Released on February 6, 2013
289. How will the following Iran Freedom and Counter-Proliferation Act (IFCA) terms be interpreted: “Iran,” “knowingly,” “significant,” and “transfer”?
As a general matter, we intend to rely, where applicable, on definitions of terms previously included in Treasury regulations.
“Iran”
The Iranian Financial Sanctions Regulations ( 31 CFR part 561 ) (IFSR) define “Iran” as the Government of Iran and the territory of Iran and any other territory or marine area, including the exclusive economic zone and continental shelf, over which the Government of Iran claims sovereignty, sovereign rights, or jurisdiction, provided that the Government of Iran exercises partial or total de facto control over the area or derives a benefit from economic activity in the area pursuant to international arrangements. ( 31 CFR § 561.329 )
“knowingly”
The IFSR define “knowingly” with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a result, to mean that a person has actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the circumstance, or the result. ( 31 CFR § 561.314 )
“significant”
As a general matter, in determining for purposes of IFCA and relevant Executive orders whether transactions, financial transactions, or financial services are significant, the Department of the Treasury will rely on the interpretation set out in  §561.404  of the IFSR. The IFSR provide that the Department of the Treasury may consider the totality of the facts and circumstances set forth a list of broad factors that can play a role in the determination whether transactions, financial services, and financial transactions are significant, including: (a) the size, number, and frequency of the transactions, financial services, or financial transactions; (b) the nature of the transactions, financial services, or financial transactions, including their type, complexity, and commercial purpose; (c) the level of awareness of management and whether the transactions are part of a pattern of conduct; (d) the nexus of the transactions, financial services, and financial transactions and blocked persons; (e) the impact of the transactions, financial services, and financial transactions on statutory objectives; (f) whether the transactions, financial services, and financial transactions involve deceptive practices; (g) whether the transactions solely involve the passive holdings of Central Bank of Iran (CBI) reserves or repayment by the CBI of official development assistance or the transfer of funds required as a condition of Iran’s membership in an international financial institution; and (h) other relevant factors that the Secretary of the Treasury deems relevant. We anticipate adopting a similar approach to interpreting the term “significant” as it applies to goods or services. ( 31 C.F.R. §561.404 )
“transfer”
We anticipate that regulations to be promulgated will define “transfer” to include import, transshipment, export, or reexport, whether direct or indirect.
Released on August 6, 2018
290. Are payments or deliveries that are made on or after July 1, 2013, for contracts that existed prior to July 1, 2013, exempted from IFCA provisions?
There is no general exception for payments, sales, deliveries, or transfers arising out of contracts entered into prior to July 1, 2013, on or after which date certain activities become sanctionable under the  Iran Freedom and Counter-Proliferation Act of 2012 (IFCA). The assessment of whether such payments are “significant” or result in the transfer of “significant goods or services” or “significant financial support” will be done on a case-by-case basis in line with the criteria discussed above.
Released on June 3, 2013
292. What are the implications of IFCA on the provision of humanitarian goods to the people of Iran?
IFCA generally excepts from sanctions transactions for the sale of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices to Iran, as set out in more detail in Q&As 297 and 304 .
Released on August 6, 2018
293. What will the “energy, shipping, and shipbuilding sectors of Iran” mean for the purposes of IFCA?
We anticipate that regulations to be promulgated will define “energy sector of Iran” to include activities involving the exploration, extraction, production, refinement, or liquefaction of petroleum, natural gas, or petroleum products in Iran. (See also discussion of activities involving natural gas in Q&A 297 .)
We anticipate that regulations to be promulgated will define “shipping sector of Iran” to include activities involving the transportation of goods by seagoing vessels, including oil tankers and cargo vessels, flying the flag of the Islamic Republic of Iran, or owned, controlled, chartered, or operated directly or indirectly by the Government of Iran.
We anticipate that regulations to be promulgated will define “shipbuilding sector of Iran” to include activities involving the construction of seagoing vessels, including oil tankers and cargo vessels, in Iran.
Released on August 6, 2018
294. How will I know if someone is part of Iran’s energy, shipping, or shipbuilding sectors or is a port operator in Iran?
Persons determined to be part of Iran’s energy, shipping, or shipbuilding sectors, or a port operator in Iran for purposes of IFCA section 1244(c) will be identified as such on the SDN List . Knowingly providing certain significant support to persons determined to be part of Iran’s energy, shipping, or shipbuilding sectors, or a port operator in Iran will have exposure to sanctions, unless the transaction is excepted (see also Q&A 297 ).
Released on June 3, 2013
295. What are goods or services used in connection with Iran’s energy, shipping, or shipbuilding sectors for purposes of IFCA section 1244(d)(3)?
We anticipate that regulations to be promulgated will define goods and services used in connection with Iran’s energy, shipping and shipbuilding sectors to include:
a. Energy Sector: In the case of Iran’s energy sector, goods or services that contribute to,
Iran’s ability to develop its domestic petroleum resources;
The maintenance or expansion of Iran’s domestic production of petroleum products; and
Iran’s ability to import or export petroleum or petroleum products.
b. Shipping Sector: In the case of Iran’s shipping sector,
The provision of crude and product tankers to Iran;
The provision of registry, flagging, or classification services of any kind;
The supervision of and participation in the repair of ships and their parts;
The inspection, testing, and certification of marine equipment materials and components;
The carrying out of surveys, inspections, audits and visits, and the issuance, renewal or endorsement of the relevant certificates and documents of compliance, as they relate to ships and shipping; and
Any other goods or services relating to the maintenance, supply, bunkering, and docking of vessels flying the flag of the Islamic Republic of Iran, or owned, controlled, chartered, or operated directly or indirectly by, or for or on behalf of the Government of Iran (GOI) or an Iranian person.
c. Shipbuilding Sector: In the case of Iran’s shipbuilding sector,
The building and refit of vessels;
The provision or refit of items such as (i) steam turbines and their parts for marine propulsions, (ii) marine propulsion engines and parts used solely or principally with them, (iii) other gas turbines for marine propulsion, (iv) ship or boat propellers and blades, and (v) direction finding compasses and other navigational instruments and appliances solely for the maritime industry;
Other goods used in connection with building and propulsion of vessels; and
Technical assistance and training relating to, and financing of, the building, maintenance or re-fitting of vessels.
Sections 1244(d)(1) and (2) of IFCA make sanctionable certain transactions for the sale, supply, or transfer to or from Iran of such goods and services if they are significant goods or services used in connection with Iran’s energy, shipping, or shipbuilding sectors. (See FAQ  289 above for an interpretation of “significant.”) The provision of goods or services identified above could be sanctionable regardless of whether any person involved in the transaction has been determined to be part of Iran’s energy, shipping, or shipbuilding sectors.
Released on June 3, 2013
296. Will the provision of bunkering services to a non-Iranian vessel carrying non-sanctionable goods to or from Iran be subject to sanctions?
If a non-Iranian vessel is transporting non-sanctionable goods to or from Iran, the bunkering of that non-Iranian vessel in a country other than Iran — and related payments for these bunkering services — will not be subject to sanctions, only if (1) the transaction either does not involve U.S. persons (including U.S. financial institutions) or U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entities, or the transaction is exempt from OFAC regulation or authorized by OFAC if it does involve U.S. persons (including U.S. financial institutions) or U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entities, and (2) the transaction does not involve persons on OFAC’s List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons (SDN List) that have been designated in connection with Iran’s support for international terrorism or proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, including designated Iranian financial institutions or the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), or activity that is subject to other sanctions authorities.
Released on September 5, 2019
297. Are there any exceptions to the sanctions provisions of section 1244 of IFCA?
The following transactions are excepted from the provisions of section 1244 of IFCA .
a. Transactions for the sale of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices to Iran or for the provision of humanitarian assistance to the people of Iran.
b. The export of petroleum or petroleum products from Iran to a country with a significant reduction exception under section 1245(d)(4)(D)(i) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (NDAA 2012).
c. A significant financial transaction conducted or facilitated by a foreign financial institution (FFI), provided that a significant reduction exception under 1245(d)(4)(D)(i) of NDAA 2012 applies to the country with primary jurisdiction over the FFI and the financial transaction is for trade in goods or services (i) between Iran and the country with primary jurisdiction over the FFI and (ii) not otherwise subject to sanctions under the law of the United States, and any funds owed to Iran as a result of the trade are credited to an account located in the country with primary jurisdiction over the FFI. We anticipate the implementation of these trade requirements to be similar to the trade requirements set forth in the Iranian Financial Sanctions Regulations ( IFSR ), in particular 31 CFR §561.203 (j) and 31 CFR §561.203 (k).
d. The sale, supply, or transfer of natural gas to or from Iran. IFCA section 1244, however, does set out sanctions that may apply to FFIs that conduct or facilitate a transaction for the sale, supply, or transfer of natural gas to or from Iran unless the financial transaction is for trade in goods or services (i) between Iran and the country with primary jurisdiction over the FFI and (ii) not otherwise subject to sanctions under the law of the United States, and any funds owed to Iran as a result of the trade are credited to an account located in the country with primary jurisdiction over the FFI. We anticipate the implementation of these trade requirements to be similar to the trade requirements set forth in the IFSR, in particular 31 CFR §561.203(j) and 31 CFR §561.203(k).
e. Certain activities relating to the pipeline project to supply natural gas from the Shah Deniz gas field in Azerbaijan to Europe and Turkey.
Released on August 6, 2018
298. For purposes of IFCA, what materials are considered graphite, raw or semi-finished metals?
For purposes of IFCA , we anticipate that regulations to be promulgated will define graphite, raw or semi-finished metals described in section 1245(d) of IFCA to include steels; aluminum metal and its alloys; base metals of single or complex borides of titanium; beryllium metal and its alloys; boron metal and its alloys; cobalt metal and its alloys; copper infiltrated tungsten metal; copper-beryllium metal; germanium metal and its alloys; graphites; hastelloy; inconel; magnesium metal and its alloys; molybdenum metal and its alloys; neptunium-237 metal and its alloys; nickel metal and its alloys; nickel aluminide metals; niobium metal and its alloys; niobium-titanium filaments; plutonium metal and its alloys; porous nickel metal; silver infiltrated tungsten metal; tantalum metal and its alloys; tellurium metal and its alloys; titanium aluminide metals; titanium metal and its alloys; tungsten metal, tungsten carbide metal, and their alloys; uranium titanium alloy metals; and zirconium metal and its alloys and compounds.
Released on June 3, 2013
299. For purposes of IFCA, what are considered precious metals?
For purposes of IFCA , we anticipate that regulations to be promulgated will define the term “precious metals” to include silver (including silver plated with gold or platinum, unwrought or in semi-manufactured forms, or in powder form); gold (including gold plated with platinum, unwrought or in semi-manufactured forms, or in powder form); base metals or silver, clad with gold, not further worked than semi-manufactured; platinum, unwrought or in semi-manufactured forms, or in powder form; iridium; osmium; palladium; rhodium; ruthenium; base metals, silver or gold, clad with platinum, not further worked than semi-manufactured; waste and scrap of precious metal or of metal clad with precious metals, other waste and scrap containing precious metal or precious-metal compounds, of a kind used principally for the recovery of precious metal.
Released on June 3, 2013
300. For purposes of sanctions under section 1245, how will I know which sectors are controlled by Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps?
Pursuant to delegated authority, the Secretary of State issues periodic reports pursuant to section 1245(e) of IFCA with respect to which sectors of the Iranian economy are controlled directly or indirectly by Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC). Given the opaque business environment in Iran and the significant role that the IRGC plays in the Iranian economy, OFAC recommends that a person considering business in Iran or with Iranian persons conduct due diligence sufficient to ensure that it is not knowingly engaging in transactions with the IRGC, or its officials, agents, or affiliates.
Released on August 6, 2018
301. How will the determination be made as to whether materials are used in a manner that would make them subject to sanctions under section 1245 of IFCA?
A FFI , prior to conducting or facilitating a significant financial transaction for the sale, supply, or transfer to or from Iran of the materials listed in 1245(d) – as described in part in Q&A 298 – will need to undertake due diligence to ensure that the transaction does not involve the materials being sold, supplied, or transferred, directly or indirectly, to or from Iran for sanctionable uses under section 1245 . Pursuant to delegated authority, the Secretary of State issues periodic reports pursuant to section 1245(e) of IFCA, which contains determinations on which materials identified in section 1245(d) are used by Iran as a medium for swap or barter, are listed as assets on the national balance sheet of Iran, or are used in connection with the nuclear, military, or ballistic missile programs of Iran.
Released on August 6, 2018
302. Are there any exceptions to section 1245 of IFCA?
A person will not be subject to sanctions under section 1245 of IFCA if a determination is made by the Department of the Treasury or the Department of State, as appropriate, that the person has established and enforced official policies, procedures, and controls to ensure that the person does not sell, supply, or transfer to or from Iran, or facilitate or conduct a significant financial transaction to sell supply, or transfer to or from Iran, materials listed in section 1245 as sanctioned under section 1245. The Department of the Treasury or the Department of State, as appropriate, will make this determination on a case by case basis as part of an investigation or enforcement action by the relevant Department.
Released on June 3, 2013
303. Which insurance, reinsurance, or underwriting activities are potentially subject to sanctions under IFCA's section 1246(a)(1)?
A number of insurance activities are subject to sanctions under IFCA , including knowingly providing insurance, reinsurance, or underwriting services to or for Iranian persons on the SDN List to or for any person designated in connection with Iran’s support for international terrorism or WMD proliferation, or for activities with respect to Iran for which sanctions have been imposed (e.g., knowingly engaging in a significant transaction for the purchase, acquisition, sale, transport, or marketing of petroleum or petroleum products from Iran). However, the provision of insurance, reinsurance, or underwriting services to non-Iranian persons on the SDN List is generally not sanctionable under section 1246(a)(1) of IFCA if the provision of insurance, reinsurance or underwriting services is not to or for an Iranian person on the SDN List, to or for any person designated in connection with Iran’s support for international terrorism or WMD proliferation, or for any activity with respect to Iran for which sanctions have been imposed.
Released on November 27, 2019
304. Are there exceptions to insuring, reinsuring, or underwriting sanctioned activities?
Yes. IFCA includes the following exceptions to insuring, reinsuring, or underwriting sanctioned activities.
a. Transactions for the sale of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices to Iran or for the provision of humanitarian assistance to the people of Iran can be insured, reinsured, or underwritten.
b. A person that provides insurance, reinsurance, or underwriting services to sanctioned activity, if a determination is made by the Department of the Treasury or the Department of State, as appropriate, that the person has established and enforced official policies, procedures, and controls to ensure that the person does not underwrite or enter into a contract to provide insurance or reinsurance for activities targeted under section 1246 of IFCA . The Department of the Treasury or the Department of State, as appropriate, will make this determination on a case by case basis as part of an investigation or enforcement action by the relevant Department.
Released on June 3, 2013
313. What is the Iran Freedom and Counter-Proliferation Act of 2012 (IFCA)?
IFCA was signed into law on January 2, 2013, as a part of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013, and provides for several new sanctions related to Iran. IFCA authorizes broad sanctions on: certain activities related to Iran’s energy, shipping, and shipbuilding sectors; the sale, supply, or transfer to or from Iran of precious and certain other metals, graphite, coal, and industrial software; the provision of underwriting services, insurance, or reinsurance to activities and persons targeted by U.S. sanctions against Iran; financial transactions involving sanctioned Iranian individuals and entities; and persons involved in the diversion of goods intended for the Iranian people. Most of the IFCA provisions target conduct occurring on or after July 1, 2013.
The U.S. Department of the Treasury will be issuing regulations to implement certain provisions in IFCA. In addition, the U.S. Department of State expects to adopt an interpretation of IFCA similar to that set forth below.
Released on June 3, 2013
314. Can an exporter of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices get paid out of a Central Bank of Iran (CBI) account at a foreign financial institution (FFI) in a country with a significant reduction exception, even though the exporter is located in a third-country? Can the third-country exporter’s bank handle this transaction?
Yes. So long as the transaction does not involve a designated individual or entity, banks on the Part 561 List located on OFAC’s website, or otherwise proscribed conduct, such transactions are not sanctionable under U.S. law. Furthermore, there is no requirement under U.S. law that agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices be routed through the country with the significant reduction exception .
Such a payment mechanism is not the exclusive mechanism for the purchase of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices under U.S. law. Other options include receiving payment from a third-country account of the CBI or a non-designated Iranian financial institution.
The Department of the Treasury Office of Foreign Assets Control regulations describe the exception for transactions relating to agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices in 31 CFR § 561.203 (g) and Note 2 to 51 CFR § 561.203. Additional information and clarifying guidance about humanitarian assistance and related exports to the Iranian people can be found in the Clarifying Guidance document.
Released on June 3, 2013
315. Will routine payments or fees be subject to sanctions if they are made to a person determined to be a port operator in Iran and if the vessel is carrying non-sanctioned goods?
Any company involved in loading or unloading cargo in Iran should exercise great caution to avoid engaging in transactions with entities designated by the United States, including the Tidewater Middle East Co. which was designated for its involvement in Iran’s proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. However, to the extent that a shipping company transacts with port operators in Iran that have been identified as such under IFCA but not otherwise designated, and as long as such payments are limited strictly to routine fees including port dues, docking fees, or cargo handling fees, paid for the loading and unloading of non-sanctioned goods at Iranian ports, we anticipate that such transactions would not be considered significant transactions for the purposes of IFCA. Non-routine and/or large payments or fees that materially exceed standard industry rates could expose a person to sanctions. Furthermore, providing any port operator in Iran with any significant financial, material, technological, or other support could expose a person to sanctions.
Released on August 6, 2018
318. Does the GL for medical devices authorize the exportation or reexportation of all medical devices?
No. The GL for medical devices appearing at section 560.530 (a)(3)(i) of the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations ( ITSR ) authorizes covered persons, as defined in section 560.530(e)(4), to export or reexport to Iran medical devices as defined in section 560.530(e)(3) of the ITSR, except for items on the List of Medical Devices Requiring Specific Authorization , which is maintained on OFAC’s website. This list will be published in the Federal Register, as will any changes to the list.
Released on December 22, 2016
319. Does the GL for medical devices authorize the exportation or reexportation of these items to all entities in Iran?
No. While the GL under section 560.530 (a)(3)(i) of the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations ( ITSR ) authorizes exports or reexports of certain medical devices to most entities in Iran, it does not authorize exports or reexports to military, intelligence, or law enforcement purchasers or importers, nor does it authorize exports or reexports to persons whose property and interests in property are blocked under any of the programs administered by OFAC, except for persons whose property and interests in property are blocked solely pursuant to Executive Order 13599 and the ITSR. When engaging in activities pursuant to this GL, exporters and reexporters are expected to undertake due diligence regarding all parties to the transactions, just as they would when acting pursuant to a specific license issued by OFAC.
Released on December 22, 2016
336. How do I know whether a person is identified under E.O. 13608?
On December 18, 2025, the remaining name on the FSE list was removed. As a result, the FSE list is currently empty. However, new names may be added to this list at any time in the future.
Please refer to the Foreign Sanctions Evaders (FSE) List .
Released on February 6, 2014
337. Are transactions that were previously authorized under 31 CFR § 560.540 of the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations (ITSR) prior to May 17, 2024 or General License (GL) D-2 still authorized under the revised 31 CFR § 560.540?
Yes, transactions that were authorized under 31 CFR § 560.540 of the ITSR as of May 16, 2024 or GL D 2 (as well as its predecessors, GLs D and D-1) continue to be authorized pursuant to the version of 31 CFR § 560.540 revised on May 17, 2024.  See FAQs 338–343 and 1110 for additional information on transactions authorized pursuant to 31 CFR § 560.540.
Date Updated: May 16, 2024
Released on February 7, 2014
338. With respect to the authorizations in 31 CFR § 560.540(a)(1) and (a)(2) of the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations (ITSR), what services and software are covered?
Qualifying services under 31 CFR § 560.540(a)(1) are those that are “incident to the exchange of communications over the internet,” as well as cloud-based services in support of such services or of any other transaction authorized or exempt under the ITSR.  Qualifying software under 31 CFR § 560.540(a)(2) is software that is incident to, or enables services incident to, the exchange of communications over the internet, as well as certain cloud-based services.  In addition, qualifying software under 31 CFR § 560.540(a)(2) must meet the stated export control-related criteria.  Both paragraphs provide an illustrative but not exhaustive list of the types of services that are authorized: “instant messaging, chat and email, social networking, sharing of photos and movies, web browsing, blogging, social media platforms, collaboration platforms, video conferencing, e-gaming, e-learning platforms, automated translation, web maps, and user authentication services, as well as cloud-based services in support of the foregoing or of any other transaction authorized or exempt under the ITSR.
Qualifying services or software need not be specifically listed in the 31 CFR § 560.540 List of Services, Software, and Hardware Incident to Communications in order to be authorized by 31 CFR § 560.540(a)(1) or (a)(2), provided that they otherwise meet the requirements of 31 CFR § 560.540(a)(1) or (a)(2).
Date Updated: May 16, 2024
Released on February 7, 2014
339. With respect to the authorization in 31 CFR § 560.540(a)(3), do exporters need to make a determination as to whether an export of an item or service included in the 31 CFR § 560.540 List of Services, Software, and Hardware Incident to Communications is “incident to communications”?
No.  The 31 CFR § 560.540 List of Services, Software, and Hardware Incident to Communications lists software, hardware, and related services determined to be “incident to communications” for purposes of the authorization in 31 CFR § 560.540(a)(3) of the ITSR.
Date Updated: May 16, 2024
Released on February 7, 2014
340. What should I do if I am unsure whether an item or service is covered by 31 CFR § 560.540?
If you require assistance interpreting the authorizations contained in 31 CFR § 560.540 and how they apply to your situation, please contact OFAC’s Compliance hotline or submit a request for interpretive guidance at the OFAC License Application Page .
Date Updated: May 16, 2024
Released on February 7, 2014
341. May a non-U.S. person export, reexport, or provide to Iran hardware or software that is subject to Commerce's Export Administration Regulations (EAR) pursuant to 31 CFR § 560.540?
Yes.  For purposes of the authorities administered by OFAC, 31 CFR § 560.540 authorizes the exportation, reexportation, or provision of certain hardware and software subject to the EAR by non-U.S. persons outside the United States.  See 31 CFR § 560.540(a)(2)(i) and (a)(3).  For example, a non-U.S. person manufacturer of smartphones that are (a) subject to the EAR because they contain more than a de minimis amount of U.S.-controlled content and (b) within the scope of the 31 CFR § 560.540 authorization may export the smartphones from its third-country manufacturing facility directly or indirectly to Iran.  See FAQs 1087–1089 and 1110 .
Date Updated: May 16, 2024
Released on February 7, 2014
342. Does 31 CFR § 560.540 continue to authorize U.S. persons located outside the United States to export or reexport to Iran certain specified hardware or software that is not subject to Commerce's Export Administration Regulations (EAR)?
Yes.  Section 560.540 of the ITSR continues to authorize the exportation, reexportation, or provision to Iran by U.S. persons located outside of the United States of certain specified hardware and software items that are not subject to the EAR .  See 31 CFR § 560.540(a)(2)(ii), (a)(3)(ii) and (iii).  Section 560.540 continues to extend this authorization to an entity owned or controlled by a U.S. person and established or maintained outside the United States (“a U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity”), subject to the conditions set forth in 31 CFR § 560.556 .  For example, an overseas branch of a U.S. company or a U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity may export to Iran, from a location outside the United States, certain hardware or software that is not subject to the EAR (including foreign-origin hardware or software containing less than a de minimis amount of U.S. controlled content) if the hardware or software is within the scope of the 31 CFR § 560.540 authorization.  Section 560.540 also authorizes the exportation, reexportation, or provision of certain fee-based software that is not subject to the EAR because it is described in section 734.3 (b)(3) of the EAR.
Date Updated: May 16, 2024
Released on February 7, 2014
343. Does 31 CFR § 560.540 of the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations (ITSR) authorize the exportation to Iran and importation into the United States or a third country of communication devices by persons travelling to and from Iran?
Yes.  Section 560.540 of the ITSR authorizes the exportation, reexportation, or provision to Iran and the importation into the United States by an individual entering the United States directly or indirectly from Iran, of hardware and software authorized by paragraphs 31 CFR § 560.540(a) (2) or (a)(3).  See Note 1 to paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of 31 CFR § 560.540.  Section 560.540 also authorizes the importation into the United States by an individual entering the United States, directly or indirectly, from Iran, of hardware or software authorized by 31 CFR § 560.540(a)(2) or (a)(3), provided the items were previously exported, reexported, or provided to Iran under an authorization issued pursuant to the ITSR.  See 31 CFR § 560.540(a)(5).  See also FAQ 1110 .
Date Updated: May 16, 2024
Released on February 7, 2014
345. How can U.S. companies arrange for payment from Iran for exports authorized under 31 CFR § 560.540?
In general, the payment requirements under 31 CFR § 560.540 are the same as for all other general licenses under the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations ( ITSR ).  Section 560.540(c) of the ITSR provides that U.S. depository institutions or U.S. registered brokers or dealers in securities may process transfers of funds from Iran or for or on behalf of a person in Iran that are in furtherance of a transaction authorized under 31 CFR § 560.540, provided the transfer is consistent with § 560.516, which does not allow debiting or crediting an Iranian account.  See 31 CFR § 560.516(a).
Date Updated: May 16, 2024
Released on February 7, 2014
346. What kind of due diligence is required for the exportation of fee-based services, software, or hardware authorized by 31 CFR § 560.540?
Due diligence programs should be tailored to the particular risks encountered by exporters.
As a general matter, companies selling fee-based services, software, or hardware authorized by 31 CFR § 560.540 should undertake reasonable, risk-based measures designed to ensure that they do not export their products to persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any sanctions program administered by OFAC, regardless of whether the Government of Iran or other end-user appears on OFAC’s Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List or any of OFAC's other sanctions lists .
See FAQ 1088 for more information regarding OFAC’s due diligence expectations for cloud-based service or software providers whose services and software support communications tools are authorized by 31 CFR § 560.540.
Date Updated: May 16, 2024
Released on February 7, 2014
347. Are there any restrictions as to the use of the Farsi language in authorized advertising or software?
U.S. sanctions on Iran do not impose any restrictions as to the use of the Farsi language. See FAQ 337 .
Date Updated: May 16, 2024
Released on February 7, 2014
348. May U.S. persons employ agents in Iran to facilitate sales, create or fund a physical sales presence on the ground in Iran, or utilize Iranian commercial marketing services in furtherance of exports authorized under 31 CFR § 560.540 of the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations (ITSR)?
No.  Section 560.540 of the ITSR does not authorize the employment of persons in Iran to facilitate sales, the maintenance of a physical sales presence in Iran, or the utilization of Iranian marketing services.  However, the exportation of certain copy-ready advertising materials is exempt from the prohibitions of the ITSR to the extent they qualify as information or informational materials pursuant to 31 CFR § 560.210 (c).
Date Updated: May 16, 2024
Released on February 7, 2014
361. What items and persons are excluded from the agricultural commodities general license in the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations (ITSR)?
The specified items excluded from the scope of the agricultural commodities general license are: castor beans, castor bean seeds, certified pathogen-free eggs (unfertilized or fertilized), dried egg albumin, live animals (excluding live cattle, shrimp, and shrimp eggs), embryos (excluding cattle embryos), Rosary/Jequirity peas, non-food-grade gelatin powder, peptones and their derivatives, super absorbent polymers, western red cedar, and all fertilizers.
The persons excluded from the scope of the agricultural commodities general license are Iranian military, intelligence, or law enforcement purchasers or importers. In addition, the agricultural commodities general license does not authorize exports or reexports to persons whose property and interests in property are blocked under any of the programs administered by OFAC, except for persons whose property and interests in property are blocked solely pursuant to   Executive Order 13599 and the ITSR .
Exports or reexports involving the excluded items or excluded persons discussed above continue to require the level of review afforded by specific licensing and therefore are not authorized by the agricultural commodities general license.
Released on December 22, 2016
362. Is the exportation or reexportation of non-U.S.-origin agricultural commodities, medicine, or medical devices by a U.S. person to Iran authorized?
Yes. The definitions of the terms “agricultural commodities,” “medicine,” and “medical device” used in the relevant general licenses in the ITSR include, in the case of items subject to Commerce's Export Administration Regulations (EAR), items that are designated as EAR99 and, in the case of items not subject to the EAR, items that would be designated as EAR99 if they were located in the United States. For example, under the agricultural commodities general license, a company located in the United States would be authorized to arrange for the exportation from a third country to Iran of agricultural commodities produced in the third country if those commodities would be designated as EAR99 if they were located in the United States, provided that all conditions of the general license are otherwise satisfied.
Released on December 22, 2016
363. Is the exportation or reexportation by non-U.S. persons of agricultural commodities, medicine, or medical devices that are subject to the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) to Iran authorized?
Yes. A non-U.S. person may export or reexport agricultural commodities, medicine, or medical devices to Iran under the relevant general licenses in the ITSR , provided that the items are subject to Commerce's Export Administration Regulations  (EAR); and all conditions of the relevant general license are otherwise satisfied. For example, a non-U.S. person would be authorized under the medicine and medical devices general license to arrange for the exportation or reexportation to Iran of EAR99 medicines located in the United States or a third country.
In addition, an entity owned or controlled by a U.S. person and established or maintained outside the United States (a “U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity”) may export or reexport agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices to Iran under the relevant general licenses in the ITSR (including both items subject to the EAR and items not subject to the EAR), provided that all conditions of the relevant general license are otherwise satisfied. For example, a U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity would be authorized under the medicine and medical devices general license to arrange for the reexport to Iran of EAR99 medicines, as well as the export to Iran of medicines not subject to the EAR (e.g., medicines produced outside the U.S. by a non-U.S. person with no controlled U.S. content) that would be designated as EAR99 if they were located in the United States.
Released on December 22, 2016
364. Who can apply for a specific license if an export or reexport to Iran is not authorized by general license?
If an export or reexport is not authorized by general license, any U.S. person, or non-U.S. person exporting items subject to Commerce's Export Administration Regulations  (EAR); and designated as EAR99, wherever located, or U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity may apply for a specific license. For example, a U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity may apply for a specific license for the export or reexport to Iran of agricultural commodities excluded from the scope of the agricultural commodities general license, such as live animals.
Released on December 22, 2016
365. What is authorized with respect to brokerage services related to exports or reexports of agricultural commodities, medicine, or medical devices to Iran?
U.S. persons continue to be authorized to provide brokerage services on behalf of U.S. persons for the sale and exportation or reexportation by U.S. persons of agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices to Iran, provided that the sale and exportation or reexportation itself is authorized by either general or specific license.
Released on April 7, 2014
366. Do I still need to come in to OFAC for a specific license to export certain types of agricultural commodities to Iran?
OFAC will no longer issue specific licenses for exports or reexports that are covered by the agricultural commodities general license in the ITSR .
However, a small number of specified agricultural commodities and certain persons are excluded from the agricultural commodities general license and continue to require the level of review afforded by specific licensing. As a result, persons seeking authorization for the exportation or reexportation to Iran of castor beans, castor bean seeds, certified pathogen-free eggs (unfertilized or fertilized), dried egg albumin, live animals (excluding live cattle, shrimp, and shrimp eggs), embryos (excluding cattle embryos), Rosary/Jequirity peas, non-food-grade gelatin powder, peptones and their derivatives, super absorbent polymers, western red cedar, or all fertilizers, or for the exportation or reexportation of any agricultural commodities to Iranian military, intelligence, or law enforcement purchasers or importers, must still apply for a specific license from OFAC.
The agricultural commodities general license in the ITSR also does not authorize exports or reexports to persons whose property and interests in property are blocked under any of the programs administered by OFAC, except for persons whose property and interests in property are blocked solely pursuant to Executive Order 13599 and the ITSR.
Released on December 22, 2016
367. What is the definition of a “bioactive peptide”?
For purposes of the relevant exclusion from the agricultural commodities general license in the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations( ITSR ), the term “bioactive peptide” means an item that must be less than 50 amino acids in length and bioactive (antioxidant, antiallergic, antimicrobial, antithrombotic, antiatherogenic, hypoglycaemic, anti-inflammatory, antitumor, cytostatic, immunosuppressive properties, or hepatoprotective properties.)
Released on April 7, 2014
417. Are payments or the facilitation of payments not involving U.S. persons to Iranian civil aviation authorities for overflights of Iran or landing in Iran by aircraft that are owned by a non-U.S. person and registered outside the United States sanctionable under U.S. law?
No.  Provided that the relevant transactions do not involve the U.S. financial system or persons on the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List ( SDN List ), payments of charges for services rendered by the Government of Iran in connection with the overflight of Iran or landing in Iran of aircraft owned by a non-U.S. person and registered outside the United States are not subject to sanctions under U.S. law.  The involvement of persons on the SDN List, including Iranian financial institutions or airlines designated pursuant to Executive Order 13224 or Executive Order 13382 , would create sanctions exposure for participants to such transactions.
U.S. persons and U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entities cannot participate in transactions related to the payment of overflight or landing fees to the Government of Iran, nor can such transactions transit the U.S. financial system, unless the transactions fall within the scope of 31 C.F.R. § 560.522 or a specific license issued by OFAC and the payments in connection with such authorized transactions are consistent with 31 C.F.R. § 560.516 .
Released on November 5, 2018
455. Is the provision of routine goods and services by non-U.S. persons to diplomatic missions of the Government of Iran located outside the United States sanctionable under U.S. law?
The provision of goods and services for the conduct of the official business of the diplomatic missions of the Government of Iran located outside the United States or for the personal use of the employees of the missions, including financial services such as the opening of a bank account, by a non-U.S. person would not be sanctionable under U.S. law, provided that such goods and services do not involve persons on OFAC’s List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons (other than any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality of the Government of Iran listed solely pursuant to Executive Order 13599 or any Iranian depository institution listed solely pursuant to Executory Order 13599) or other activities that would be sanctionable under U.S. law.
Further, the provision of goods and services to the diplomatic missions of the Government of Iran outside the United States cannot involve U.S. persons or U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entities, or the provision to the Government of Iran of goods, technology, or services subject to the prohibitions of 31 C.F.R. §§ 560.204-205 , nor can related transactions transit the U.S. financial system, unless the activities and/or transactions are authorized by OFAC.
Released on October 22, 2015
482. What key changes did the December 23, 2016 regulatory amendment to the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations (ITSR) make relating to the exportation and reexportation of agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices to Iran?
The amendment primarily expands the scope of medical devices that can be exported or reexported to Iran without specific authorization. It authorizes the exportation or reexportation to Iran of all items meeting the definition of the term “medical device” as defined in section 560.530 (e)(3) of the ITSR , except for certain excluded persons as well as certain medical devices that are excluded from the authorization and published on the List of Medical Devices Requiring Specific Authorization . The exportation and reexportation of items on the List of Medical Devices Requiring Specific Authorization or to excluded persons requires a specific license from OFAC. The amendment also adds shrimp and shrimp eggs to the list of agricultural commodities that may be exported to Iran without specific authorization, other than to certain excluded persons.
In addition, the amendment authorizes covered persons to provide training, other than to certain excluded persons, necessary and ordinarily incident to the safe and effective use of agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices exported or reexported pursuant to section 560.530 of the ITSR. It also authorizes the importation into the United States of certain U.S.-origin agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices that were previously exported or reexported to Iran pursuant to the authorizations in section 560.530 of the ITSR and that are broken, defective, or non-operational, or are connected to product recalls, adverse events, or other safety concerns. Additionally, the amendment authorizes the exportation or reexportation to Iran, and storage within Iran for future use, of a limited number of replacement parts for certain medical devices previously exported or reexported to Iran pursuant to an OFAC license to replace broken or non-operational components or where it is ordinarily incident and necessary to proper preventative maintenance of the medical device, and the exportation or reexportation of software and services related to the operation, maintenance, and repair of medical devices.
Released on December 22, 2016
483. How does an exporter determine which medical devices need to be specifically licensed by OFAC for exportation or reexportation to Iran?
An exporter should refer to the List of Medical Devices Requiring Specific Authorization , which is maintained on OFAC’s website, on the Iran Sanctions page . An exporter must obtain a specific license from OFAC to export or reexport any medical device on that list to Iran. An exporter must also obtain a specific license for exports to excluded persons as defined in section 560.530 (a)(3)(iv) of the ITSR .
Released on December 22, 2016
484. What types of training activities are considered to be necessary and ordinarily incident to the safe and effective use of medicine and medical devices?
OFAC considers training activities including the dissemination of product information on the intended use of the device; comparisons of other devices and options; and the manufacturer’s instructions for use, labeling, warning, contraindications, storage, and maintenance of the medicine or device to be necessary and ordinarily incident to the safe and effective use of medicines and medical devices. Other examples include training health care professionals to use medical devices safely in order to achieve the desired patient outcome, training on procedures for cleaning and inspecting devices regularly to ensure they are functioning correctly, ongoing training and periodic testing to ensure users stay competent, and training on procedures for adverse events or device failure.
Released on December 22, 2016
485. What key changes did the December 23, 2016 regulatory amendment to the Iranian Trade and Sanctions Regulations (ITSR) make to the definition of “Iranian-origin goods” or “goods of Iranian origin”?
OFAC amended section 560.306 of the ITSR to clarify that the terms “goods of Iranian origin” and “Iranian-origin goods” do not include the following categories of goods, provided that such goods were not grown, produced, manufactured, extracted, or processed in Iran: (i) goods exported or reexported to Iran under an authorization issued pursuant to the ITSR (e.g., a medical device or a personal communications device exported or reexported to Iran pursuant to a general or specific license issued pursuant to the ITSR) and that subsequently have been reexported from and are located outside of Iran, or (ii) goods transported on a vessel or aircraft that passed though Iranian territorial waters or stopped at a port or place in Iran en route to a destination outside of Iran and that have not otherwise come into contact with Iran.
Released on December 22, 2016
486. What is an example of goods otherwise coming into contact with Iran?
Goods have come into contact with Iran, if, for example, they are removed from a port or airport in Iran or are processed through Iranian customs, or if they transit Iran by truck or train en route to a destination outside of Iran.
Released on December 22, 2016
487. Are goods that are unloaded from a ship in an Iranian port, put on a truck, and driven out of the boundaries of the port or place of unloading considered to be Iranian-origin goods?
Yes. These goods have otherwise come in contact with Iran and thus do not fall within the carve-out to the definition of Iranian-origin goods or goods of Iranian-origin at section 560.306 (b)(2) of the ITSR . However, if these goods are being exported or reexported to Iran under an authorization issued pursuant to the ITSR and they subsequently are reexported from and are located outside of Iran, they would fall within the carve-out to the definition of Iranian-origin goods or goods of Iranian-origin at section 560.306(b)(1) of the ITSR.
Released on December 22, 2016
488. Are goods that are unloaded from a ship in an Iranian port, moved within the boundaries of the port, and loaded onto a second ship en route to a destination outside of Iran, without ever leaving the port considered to be Iranian-origin goods?
No, provided that they have not otherwise come in contact with Iran.
Released on December 22, 2016
533. What are the requirements of CAATSA section 105 related to the imposition of sanctions on the IRGC, and how are those requirements being implemented?
On August 2, 2017, the President signed into law the “Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act” (Public Law 115-44) ( CAATSA ), which, among other things, imposes new sanctions on Iran. Section 105 of CAATSA requires the imposition of sanctions applicable pursuant to the global terrorism Executive Order 13224 on Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) and foreign persons that are officials, agents, or affiliates of the IRGC. Consistent with that requirement of CAATSA, OFAC designated the IRGC on October 13, 2017, pursuant to E.O. 13224 for providing support to the IRGC-Qods Force, which previously had been designated for its support to various terrorist groups. In addition, effective October 31, 2017, OFAC amended the Global Terrorism Sanctions Regulations, 31 C.F.R. part 594 , to block the property and interests in property of foreign persons that have been identified by OFAC as officials, agents, or affiliates of the IRGC.
Released on October 30, 2017
534. Before October 13, 2017, wasn’t the IRGC already subject to sanctions? What’s different about applying terrorism-related sanctions to the IRGC and foreign persons that are officials, agents, or affiliates of the IRGC?
Before October 13, 2017, the IRGC was blocked under Executive Order 13382 (relating to WMD proliferation), 13553 (relating to Iranian human rights abuses), and 13606 (relating to Iranian and Syrian human rights abuses via information technology), and persons who engaged in certain activity involving the IRGC were already subject to secondary sanctions. OFAC’s October 13, 2017 action designating the IRGC under E.O. 13224 (relating to counterterrorism) and OFAC’s October 31, 2017 action under the Global Terrorism Sanctions Regulations, 31 C.F.R. part 594 (GTSR), to block the property and interests in property of foreign persons that have been identified by OFAC as officials, agents, or affiliates of the IRGC carry additional consequences that limit certain activities with respect to the IRGC and foreign persons identified by OFAC as officials, agents, or affiliates of the IRGC. Certain exemptions available under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA) relating to personal communications, humanitarian donations, information or informational materials, and travel do not apply to transactions with persons designated under E.O. 13224 or otherwise blocked pursuant to the GTSR, which include the IRGC and foreign persons that have been identified by OFAC as officials, agents, or affiliates of the IRGC.
Released on October 30, 2017
549. In light of the recent earthquake in Iran, how can I help the Iranian people while making sure to abide by U.S. sanctions?
In light of the tragic earthquake in Iran, the Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) would like to highlight some of the ways in which Americans can provide humanitarian assistance to the Iranian people, consistent with the Iran-related sanctions administered by OFAC.
General License E , issued by OFAC in 2013 pursuant to the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations, 31 C.F.R. part 560 ( ITSR ), authorizes nongovernmental organizations to export services to Iran in support of activities related to humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs in Iran, including the provision of relief services related to natural disasters, the provision of donated health-related services, and the distribution of donated articles (such as food, clothing, and medicine) intended to be used to relieve human suffering in Iran. In addition, nongovernmental organizations are authorized to transfer up to $500,000 per year in support of these activities, subject to certain conditions, including reporting requirements.
U.S. individuals may raise funds outside of Iran in support of relief services provided by nongovernmental organizations pursuant to General License E, and may make financial donations to such nongovernmental organizations in support of authorized activities. General License E does not, however, authorize U.S. individuals to transfer financial donations directly to Iran or nongovernmental organizations in Iran or to organize disaster relief services in Iran such as fire, rescue, or medical services. U.S. persons interested in doing so should consider working through a nongovernmental organization in order to conduct such activity.
In addition, donations of articles such as food, clothing, and medicine intended to be used to relieve human suffering are exempt from the sanctions on trade between the United States and Iran, as long as the donations are not being sent to the Government of Iran or any Iranian individual or entity on the List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons ( SDN List ).
Finally, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to process noncommercial, personal remittances to Iran, which may include a personal transfer of funds from the United States to Iran to assist a friend or family member, provided that the transfer complies with the requirements of sections 560.516 and 560.550 of the ITSR.
Released on November 17, 2017
597. What is the purpose of Executive Order (E.O) 13846 of August 6, 2018, “Reimposing Certain Sanctions With Respect to Iran”?
In accordance with his May 8, 2018 decision to cease the United States’ participation in the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) and to reimpose all of the U.S. sanctions lifted or waived in connection with the JCPOA, the President issued E.O. 13846 on August 6, 2018 to reimpose relevant provisions of E.O. 13574 of May 23, 2011; E.O. 13590 of November 20, 2011; E.O. 13622 of July 30, 2012; and E.O. 13645 of June 3, 2013, that had been revoked by E.O. 13716 of January 16, 2016. Consistent with guidance issued by the Department of the Treasury on May 8, 2018 , E.O. 13846 reimposes specified sanctions relating to Iran following relevant wind-down periods, i.e., on or after August 7, 2018 or November 5, 2018, depending on the activity involved. In addition, to provide clarity and consolidate relevant authorities into a single E.O., E.O. 13846 revokes E.O.s 13716 and 13628 and continues in effect sanctions authorities provided for in those E.O.s. E.O. 13846 also broadens the scope of certain provisions contained in those E.O.s, as outlined in FAQ 601 below.
Released on August 6, 2018
598. What does E.O. 13846 do?
E.O. 13846 reimposes relevant blocking sanctions, correspondent and payable-through account sanctions, and menu-based sanctions previously provided for in E.O.s 13574, 13590, 13622, and 13645, which were revoked by E.O. 13716, and continues in effect sanctions authorities provided for in E.O.s 13628 and 13716. As incorporated into E.O. 13846, these measures include implementing authority for and additional tools related to: the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996, as amended (ISA) , the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability and Divestment Act of 2010, as amended (CISADA) , the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (TRA) , and the Iran Freedom Counter-Proliferation Act of 2012 (IFCA) (see FAQ 605 ). As a general matter, E.O. 13846 incorporates exceptions to these sanctions, including for transactions for the provision of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices to Iran, to the same extent such exceptions applied under the prior E.O.s. E.O. 13846 also broadens the scope of certain provisions contained in those E.O.s, as outlined in FAQ 601 below.
Section 1 of E.O. 13846 authorizes blocking sanctions on persons determined:
i. On or after August 7, 2018, to have provided material support for, or goods or services in support of, the purchase or acquisition of U.S. bank notes or precious metals by the Government of Iran (GOI) (subsection 1(a)(i));
ii. On or after November 5, 2018, to have provided material support for, or goods or services in support of, the National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC), the Naftiran Intertrade Company (NICO), or the Central Bank of Iran (CBI) (subsection 1(a)(ii));
iii. On or after November 5, 2018, to have provided material support for, or goods or services in support of:
a. Any Iranian person on the List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons (SDN List) (other than an Iranian depository institution whose property and interests in property are blocked solely pursuant to E.O. 13599) (subsection 1(a)(iii)(A)); or
b. Any other person on the SDN List whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to subsection 1(a) of E.O. 13846 or E.O. 13599 (other than an Iranian depository institution whose property and interests in property are blocked solely pursuant to E.O. 13599) (subsection 1(a)(iii)(B)); or
iv. Pursuant to the relevant statutory authorities in IFCA, to be:
a. Part of Iran’s energy, shipping, or shipbuilding sectors (subsection 1(a)(iv)(A));
b. A port operator in Iran (subsection 1(a)(iv)(B)); or
c. A person that knowingly provides significant support to a person determined to be part of Iran’s energy, shipping, or shipbuilding sectors, a port operator in Iran, or an Iranian person included on the SDN List (other than a person described in section 1244(c)(3) of IFCA)) (subsection 1(a)(iv)(C)).
Section 2 of E.O. 13846 authorizes correspondent and payable-through account sanctions on foreign financial institutions (FFIs) determined to have knowingly conducted or facilitated any significant financial transaction:
i. On or after August 7, 2018, for the sale, supply, or transfer to Iran of significant goods or services used in connection with Iran’s automotive sector (subsection 2(a)(i));
ii. On or after November 5, 2018, on behalf of an Iranian person on SDN List (other than an Iranian depository institution whose property and interests in property are blocked solely pursuant to E.O. 13599) or any other person on the SDN List whose property is blocked pursuant to subsection 1(a) of E.O. 13846 or E.O. 13599 (other than an Iranian depository institution whose property and interests in property are blocked solely pursuant to E.O. 13599) (subsection 2(a)(ii));
iii. On or after November 5, 2018, with NIOC or NICO, except for the sale or provision to NIOC or NICO of the products described in section 5(a)(3)(A)(i) of ISA provided that the fair market value of such products is lower than the applicable dollar threshold specified in that provision (subsection 2(a)(iii));
iv. On or after November 5, 2018, for the purchase, acquisition, sale, transport, or marketing of petroleum or petroleum products from Iran (subsection 2(a)(iv)); and
v. On or after November 5, 2018, for the purchase, acquisition, sale, transport, or marketing of petrochemical products from Iran (subsection 2(a)(v)).
Section 3 of E.O. 13846 authorizes menu-based sanctions on persons determined to:
i. Have knowingly engaged, on or after August 7, 2018, in a significant transaction for the sale, supply, or transfer to Iran of significant goods or services used in connection with Iran’s automotive sector (subsection 3(a)(i));
ii. Have knowingly engaged, on or after November 5, 2018, in a significant transaction for the purchase, acquisition, sale, transport, or marketing of petroleum or petroleum products from Iran (subsection 3(a)(ii));
iii. Have knowingly engaged, on or after November 5, 2018, in a significant transaction for the purchase, acquisition, sale, transport, or marketing of petrochemical products from Iran (subsection 3(a)(iii)); or
iv. Be a successor entity to a person determined to meet any of the criteria set out in subsections 3(a)(i)-(a)(iii) of E.O. 13846 (subsection 3(a)(iv)); or
v. Own or control a person determined to meet any of the criteria set out in subsections 3(a)(i)-(a)(iii) of E.O. 13846 and to have had knowledge that the person engaged in the activities referred to in the relevant subsection (subsection 3(a)(v)); or
vi. Be owned or controlled by, or under common ownership or control with, a person determined to meet any of the criteria set out in sections 3(a)(i)-3(a)(iii) of E.O. 13846, and knowingly engaged in the activities referred to in the relevant subsection (subsection 3(a)(vi)).
Section 4 of E.O. 13846 provides authority for the heads of relevant agencies of the U.S. government to implement the menu-based sanctions provided for in section 3.
Section 5 of E.O. 13846 provides authority for the Treasury Department to implement the menu-based sanctions provided for in ISA, CISADA, TRA, IFCA, and section 3 of E.O. 13846
Section 6 of E.O. 13846 authorizes correspondent or payable-through account sanctions or blocking sanctions on FFIs that are determined to have, on or after August 7, 2018: (a) knowingly conducted or facilitated any significant transaction related to the purchase or sale of Iranian rials or a derivative, swap, future, forward, or other similar contract whose value is based on the exchange rate of the Iranian rial (subsection 6(a)(i)); or (b) maintained significant funds or accounts outside the territory of Iran denominated in the Iranian rial (subsection 6(a)(ii)).
Section 7 of E.O. 13846 carries forward sections 2 and 3 of E.O. 13628 and subsection 3(c) of E.O. 13716 (see FAQ 602 below) by providing for blocking sanctions on persons determined to:
i. Have engaged, on or after January 2, 2013, in corruption or other activities relating to the diversion of goods, including agricultural commodities, food, medicine, and medical devices, intended for the people of Iran (subsection 7(a)(i));
ii. Have engaged, on or after January 2, 2013, in corruption or other activities relating to the misappropriation of proceeds from the sale or resale of goods described in subsection 7(a)(1) of E.O. 13846 (subsection 7(a)(ii));
iii. Have knowingly, on or after August 10, 2012, transferred or facilitated the transfer of, goods or technologies to Iran, any entity organized under the laws of Iran, or otherwise subject to the jurisdiction of the GOI, or any national of Iran for use in or with respect to Iran, that are likely to be used by the GOI or any of its agencies or instrumentalities, or by any person on behalf of the GOI or any such agencies or instrumentalities, to commit serious human rights abuses against the people of Iran (subsection 7(a)(iii));
iv. Have knowingly, on or after August 10, 2012, provided services, including services relating to hardware, software, or specialized information or professional consulting, engineering, or support services with respect to goods or technologies that have been transferred to Iran and that are likely to be used by the GOI or any of its agencies or instrumentalities, or by any person on behalf of the GOI or any such agencies or instrumentalities, to commit serious human rights abuses against the people of Iran (subsection 7(a)(iv));
v. Have engaged in censorship or other activities with respect to Iran, on or after June 12, 2009, that prohibit, limit, or penalize the exercise of freedom of expression or assembly by citizens of Iran, or that limit access to print or broadcast media, including the facilitation or support of intentional frequency manipulation by the GOI or an entity owned or controlled by the GOI that would jam or restrict an international signal (subsection 7(a)(v));
vi. Have materially assisted or provided other support for activities listed in subsections 7(a)(i)-(a)(v) of E.O. 13846 (subsection 7(a)(vi)); or
vii. Be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant section 7 of E.O. 13846 (subsection 7(a)(vii)).
Section 8 of E.O. 13846 continues in effect the sanctions previously contained in section 4 of E.O. 13628, which prohibit an entity owned or controlled by a U.S. person and established or maintained outside the United States (a “U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity”) from knowingly engaging in any transaction, directly or indirectly, with the GOI or any person subject to the jurisdiction of the GOI, if that transaction would be prohibited by specified authorities if engaged in by a U.S. person or in the United States (see FAQs 621-623 ).
Section 9 of E.O. 13846 provides that it revokes and supersedes E.O.s 13628 and 13716 (see FAQ 602 ).
Sections 10-22 of E.O. 13846 contain exceptions, definitions, and other implementing provisions related to the sanctions in the E.O.
Released on August 6, 2018
599. When does E.O. 13846 become effective?
E.O. 13846 is effective at 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time (EDT) on August 7, 2018. However, certain sanctions set out in E.O. 13846 apply only to activities that take place on or after November 5, 2018, as set out in FAQ 598 above and in the relevant provisions of E.O. 13846.
E.O. 13846 is being issued to coincide with the end of the 90-day wind down period which started on May 8, 2018 . The last day of the 90-day wind-down period is August 6, 2018, and, as announced on May 8, 2018, certain sanctions previously lifted under the JCPOA will be reimposed on August 7, 2018, including sanctions set out in E.O. 13846 (see FAQ 598 above).
Released on August 6, 2018
600. Why does subsection 1(a)(iv) of E.O. 13846 take effect before November 5, 2018?
Subsection 1(a)(iv) authorizes blocking sanctions pursuant to section 1244(c)(1)(A) of IFCA on persons determined to: (A) be part of the energy, shipping, shipbuilding sectors of Iran; (B) operate a port in Iran; or (C) knowingly provide significant support to certain other persons sanctioned pursuant to section 1244(c)(1)(A) of IFCA or an Iranian person on the SDN List. Consistent with the guidance issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury on May 8, 2018 , the relevant sanctions in section 1244(c)(1)(A) of IFCA are waived through November 4, 2018 to provide a wind-down period for activities involving Iran that were consistent with the U.S. sanctions relief provided for under the JCPOA. However, the sanctions provided for in section 1244(c)(1)(A) of IFCA targeting significant support to Iranian persons on the SDN List remained in effect even when the JCPOA sanctions relief was in effect. To the extent activities within the scope of section 1244(c)(1)(A) of IFCA involve persons on the SDN List or otherwise sanctionable conduct, persons engaging in such activities could be exposed to sanctions under subsection 1(a)(iv) of E.O. 13846 prior to November 5, 2018.
Released on August 6, 2018
601. Does E.O. 13846 expand the scope of sanctions that were in effect prior to January 16, 2016 (Implementation Day of the JCPOA)?
Yes. E.O. 13846 broadens the scope of the sanctions that were in effect prior to January 16, 2016 and provides for greater consistency in the administration of Iran-related sanctions provisions. See FAQ 597 .
These added measures are as follows:
i. Subsection 1(a)(iii)(B): Providing new authority for blocking sanctions on persons determined, on or after November 5, 2018, to have provided material support for, or goods and services in support of, persons blocked for:
a. Providing material support for, or goods and services in support of, the purchase or acquisition of U.S. bank notes or precious metals by the GOI (i.e., persons designated pursuant to subsection 1(a)(i));
b. Providing material support for, or goods and services in support of, NIOC, NICO, or CBI (i.e., persons designated pursuant to subsection 1(a)(ii)); or
c. Being part of the energy, shipping, or shipbuilding sectors of Iran or a port operator in Iran or knowingly providing significant support to certain other persons blocked pursuant to section 1244(c)(1)(A) of IFCA or to an Iranian person on the SDN List (i.e., persons blocked pursuant to subsection 1(a)(iv) for meeting the criteria of section 1244(c)(1)(A) of IFCA).
ii. Subsection 2(a)(ii): Providing new authority for correspondent and payable-through account sanctions on FFIs determined to have, on or after November 5, 2018, knowingly conducted or facilitated any significant financial transaction on behalf of the persons blocked under the new authorities in subsection 1(a)(iii)(B) described above (i.e., any person blocked pursuant to subsections 1(a)(i), 1(a)(ii), or 1(a)(iv) and included on the SDN List).
iii. Sections 4 and 5: Expanding the menu of sanctions available to impose on persons determined to have, on or after November 5, 2018, knowingly engaged in certain significant transactions relating to petroleum, petroleum products, or petrochemicals from Iran (i.e., persons determined to meet the criteria in subsections 3(a)(ii)-(a)(iii) or to be a derivative thereof pursuant to subsections 3(a)(iv)-(a)(vi)) by authorizing the imposition of:
a. Visa restrictions on corporate officers, principals, or controlling shareholders of a sanctioned person (subsection (4)(e));
b. Any of the sanctions from the menu set forth in subsections 4(a)-(e) on principal executive officers of a sanctioned person (subsection 4(f));
c. Prohibitions on U.S. persons investing in or purchasing significant amounts of equity or debt instruments of a sanctioned person (subsection 5(a)(v)); or
d. Any of the sanctions from the menu set forth in subsections 5(a)(i)-(a)(vi) on principal executive officers of a sanctioned person (subsection 5(a)(vii)).
iv. Section 8: Expanding the prohibition on U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entities previously contained in section 4 of E.O. 13628 (see FAQs 621-623 ) by prohibiting transactions with persons blocked for:
a. Providing material support for, or goods and services in support of, Iranian persons on the SDN List and certain other designated persons (i.e., persons designated pursuant to subsection 1(a)(iii)); or
b. Being part of the energy, shipping, or shipbuilding sectors of Iran or a port operator in Iran or knowingly providing significant support to certain other persons blocked pursuant to section 1244(c)(1)(A) of IFCA or to an Iranian person on the SDN List (i.e., persons blocked pursuant to subsection 1(a)(iv) for meeting the criteria of section 1244(c)(1)(A) of IFCA).
Released on August 6, 2018
602. Why does E.O. 13846 revoke E.O. 13716 and E.O. 13628?
To provide clarity and consolidate relevant authorities into a single document, E.O. 13846 revokes E.O.s 13716 and 13628, and continues in effect relevant provisions from those two revoked E.O.s. See FAQ 597  and FAQ 598 .
Provisions of E.O. 13846 that carry forward relevant provisions of E.O.s 13628 and 13716 include:
• Section 7, which consolidates into a single section designation authorities targeting corruption or other activities relating to the diversion of goods intended for the people of Iran, the transfer of goods or technologies to Iran that are likely to be used by the Government of Iran or any of its agencies or instrumentalities to commit serious human rights abuses against the people of Iran or the provision of certain services with respect to such goods or technologies, and persons engaged censorship in Iran (these provisions previously appeared in sections 2 and 3 of E.O. 13628 and section 8 of E.O. 13645, which was carried forward by subsection 3(c) of E.O. 13716), and
• Section 8 extends certain prohibitions applicable to U.S. persons under OFAC-administered Iran sanctions to U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entities and provides for civil penalties on the U.S. parent for any violations of such prohibitions to the same extent that they would apply to a U.S. person for the same conduct, consistent with section 218 of the TRA (this provision was formerly contained in section 4 of E.O. 13628).
Released on August 6, 2018
603. Do persons who were designated pursuant to E.O. 13628 of October 9, 2012, “Authorizing the Implementation of Certain Sanctions Set Forth in the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 and Additional Sanctions With Respect to Iran,” continue to be subject to sanctions following the issuance of E.O. 13846?
Yes. OFAC is taking action under section 7 of E.O. 13846 to continue in effect the designations of persons who were designated pursuant to E.O. 13628 at the time of the issuance of E.O. 13846. See FAQ 602 . U.S. persons must continue to block the property and interests in property of these individuals and entities, and non-U.S. persons should be aware of the sanctions risk associated with these persons.
Released on August 6, 2018
604. Why do the sanctions set out in E.O.s 13574 and 13590 not appear in E.O. 13846?
The Treasury Department implementation authorities set out in section 1 of E.O. 13574 for “menu-based” sanctions under ISA have been superseded by the implementation authorities for “menu-based” sanctions under a broader range of authorities that include ISA , CISADA , TRA , and IFCA , and section 3 of E.O. 13846 As a result, section 1 of E.O. 13574 is not included verbatim in E.O. 13846. See FAQ 597 and FAQ 598 .
The sanctions set out in section 1 of E.O. 13590 — relating to development of petroleum resources in Iran and Iran’s domestic production of petrochemical products — were incorporated into subsections 5(a)(5)-(a)(6) of ISA by a statutory amendment set forth in section 201 of the TRA. As a result, the sanctions previously set forth in section 1 of E.O. 13590 are not included in E.O. 13846, but remain in place pursuant to statutory authorities. Implementation authorities for the sanctions in subsections 5(a)(5)-(a)(6) of ISA are delegated to the appropriate agency heads through the Presidential Memorandum of October 9, 2012, or through section 5 of E.O. 13846.
Released on August 6, 2018
605. How does E.O. 13846 relate to various Iran-related statutes?
E.O. 13846 implements provisions of, and provides additional tools related to, ISA , CISADA , TRA , and IFCA that were contained in the prior E.O.s. These include:
i. Invoking the President’s authority under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA) to supplement statutory authorities in IFCA with prohibitions or restrictions on the importation of goods;
ii. Continuing to implement the statutory requirements of sections 105A and 105B of CISADA, as added by sections 402 and 403 of TRA, by providing authority to block the property and interests in property and suspend the entry into the United States of persons determined to have engaged in the transfer of goods or technologies to Iran that are likely to be used by the GOI or any of its agencies or instrumentalities to commit serious human rights abuses against the people of Iran or the provision of services with respect to such goods or technology after they are transferred to Iran, and persons determined to have engaged in censorship in Iran; and
iii. Continuing to implement the statutory requirements of section 105C of CISADA, as added by section 1249 of IFCA, by providing authority to block the property and interests in property and suspend the entry into the United States of persons determined to have engaged in corruption or other activities relating to the diversion of goods intended for the Iranian people or the misappropriation of proceeds from the sale or resale of such goods.
Released on August 6, 2018
606. What activity will become sanctionable on or after August 7, 2018 under E.O. 13846 or other authorities?
After the 90-day wind-down period ends on August 6, 2018, the following sanctions come into effect, including under provisions of E.O. 13846 and relevant statutory authorities:
i. Sanctions on the purchase or acquisition of U.S. dollar banknotes by the GOI (see, e.g., subsection 1(a)(i) of E.O. 13846);
ii. Sanctions on Iran’s trade in gold or precious metals (see, e.g., subsection 1(a)(i) of E.O. 13846 and subsection 1245(a)(1)(A) of IFCA );
iii. Sanctions on the direct or indirect sale, supply, or transfer to or from Iran of graphite, raw, or semi-finished metals such as aluminum and steel, coal, and software for integrating industrial processes (see, e.g., section 5 of E.O. 13846 and subsections 1245(a)(1)(B)-(a)(1)(C) and (c) of IFCA);
iv. Sanctions on significant transactions related to the purchase or sale of Iranian rials, or the maintenance of significant funds or accounts outside the territory of Iran denominated in the Iranian rial (see, e.g., section 6 of E.O. 13846);
v. Sanctions on the purchase, subscription to, or facilitation of the issuance of Iranian sovereign debt (see, e.g., section 5 of E.O. 13846 and subsection 213(a) of TRA); and
vi. Sanctions on Iran’s automotive sector (see, e.g., subsections 2(a)(i) and 3(a)(i) of E.O. 13846).
Released on August 6, 2018
607. What activity will become sanctionable on or after November 5, 2018 under E.O. 13846 or other authorities?
After the 180-day wind-down period ends on November 4, 2018, the following sanctions come into effect, including under provisions of E.O. 13846 and relevant statutory authorities:
i. Sanctions on Iran’s port operators, and shipping and shipbuilding sectors, including on the Islamic Republic of Iran Shipping Lines (IRISL), South Shipping Line Iran, or their affiliates (see, e.g., subsection 1(a)(iv) and section 5 of E.O. 13846 and section 1244(c)(1) of IFCA);
ii. Sanctions on petroleum-related transactions with, among others, NIOC, NICO, and the National Iranian Tanker Company (NITC), including the purchase of petroleum, petroleum products, or petrochemical products from Iran (see, e.g., subsections 1(a)(ii), 1(a)(iv), 2(a)(iii)-(a)(v), and 3(a)(ii)-(a)(iii) and sections 4 and 5 of E.O. 13846);
iii. Sanctions on transactions by FFIs with the CBI and designated Iranian financial institutions under section 1245 of the National Defense Authorization Act for FY 2012 (NDAA 2012) (see, e.g., section 5 of E.O. 13846, section 1245 of NDAA 2012, and subsection 1247(a) of IFCA);
iv. Sanctions on the provision of specialized financial messaging services to the CBI and Iranian financial institutions described in subsection 104(c)(2)(E)(ii) of CISADA (see, e.g., section 5 of E.O. 13846, section 220 of TRA, and subsection 1244(c)(1) of IFCA);
v. Sanctions on the provision of underwriting services, insurance, or reinsurance (see, e.g., section 5 of E.O. 13846, section 5(a)(7) of ISA, subsections 211(a) and 212(a) of TRA, and subsections 1246(a) and 1247(a) of IFCA); and
vi. Sanctions on Iran’s energy sector (see, e.g., subsection 1(a)(iv) and section 5 of E.O. 13846, subsection 5(a) of ISA, section 212(a) of TRA, and sections 1244(c)(1), (d) and (h)(2), 1246(a), and 1247(a) of IFCA).
Released on August 6, 2018
608. What transactions involving the Iranian rial are sanctionable under E.O. 13846?
Section 6 of E.O. 13846 reimposes the sanctions previously contained in section 1 of E.O. 13645 with respect to transactions involving the Iranian rial. FFIs risk correspondent and payable-through account sanctions and blocking sanctions if they, on or after August 7, 2018, (i) knowingly conduct or facilitate any significant transaction related to the purchase or sale of Iranian rials or a derivative, swap, future, forward, or other similar contract whose value is based on the exchange rate of the Iranian rial, or (ii) maintain significant funds or accounts outside the territory of Iran denominated in the Iranian rial.
Released on August 6, 2018
609. What does E.O. 13846 do with respect to the sanctions on Iran’s automotive sector?
E.O. 13846 reimposes the sanctions previously contained in subsections 3(a)(ii) and section 5 of E.O. 13645 by authorizing the imposition of correspondent and payable-through account sanctions (subsection 2(a)(i)) of E.O. 13846) and menu-based sanctions (subsection 3(a)(i) of E.O. 13846) for certain transactions, on or after August 7, 2018, for the sale, supply, or transfer to Iran of significant goods or services used in connection with Iran’s automotive sector.
Released on August 6, 2018
610. What is considered Iran’s automotive sector for purposes of E.O. 13846?
E.O. 13846 defines the automotive sector of Iran as the manufacturing or assembling in Iran of light and heavy vehicles including passenger cars, trucks, buses, minibuses, pick-up trucks, and motorcycles, as well as original equipment manufacturing and after-market parts manufacturing relating to such vehicles.
Released on August 6, 2018
611. What are goods or services used in connection with Iran’s automotive sector for purposes of E.O. 13846?
E.O. 13846 reimposes sanctions on certain transactions on or after August 7, 2018, for the sale, supply, or transfer to Iran of “significant” goods or services used in connection with the automotive sector of Iran. (See FAQ 289 for an interpretation of the term “significant.”)
We anticipate that forthcoming regulations will define “goods or services used in connection with the automotive sector of Iran” to include goods or services that contribute to (i) Iran’s ability to research, develop, manufacture, and assemble light and heavy vehicles, and (ii) the manufacturing or assembling of original equipment and after-market parts used in Iran’s automotive industry.
Released on August 6, 2018
612. Is the sale, supply, or transfer of finished vehicles or “auto kits” to Iran sanctionable under the New E.O.?
E.O. 13846 does not make sanctionable the export of finished vehicles to Iran if no further assembly or manufacturing is required. As such, exporting fully assembled and finished vehicles to Iran for sale would not be sanctionable, so long as the transaction is consistent with U.S. sanctions, including that it does not involve a sanctioned person.
In contrast, “auto kits” (or “knock-down kits”) exported to Iran for assembly in Iran would be considered goods or services used in connection with the automotive sector of Iran and the export of such kits to Iran would be sanctionable if the transaction is “significant.” (See FAQ 289 for an interpretation of the term “significant.”)
Released on August 6, 2018
613. Is the sale, supply, or transfer of goods or services for the maintenance of finished vehicles sanctionable under E.O. 13846?
Goods or services for the maintenance of finished vehicles exported to Iran would generally not be considered “significant goods or services used in connection with the automotive sector of Iran” for the purposes of E.O. 13846 , and the provision of such goods or services would generally not be sanctionable. However, the export, sale, or distribution of goods (e.g., auto parts and accessories) or services that would contribute to Iran’s ability to manufacture or assemble vehicles, or manufacture original equipment and after-market parts in Iran, could create exposure to sanctions. Persons exporting parts and services to Iran for the maintenance or upkeep of finished automobiles, and FFIs facilitating such exports, should exercise caution to ensure that the parts or services are not diverted for the manufacturing or assembly of vehicles in Iran or the manufacturing of original equipment or after-market parts in Iran, and are used only for maintenance and upkeep.
Released on August 6, 2018
614. What does E.O. 13846 do with respect to Iran’s energy, petroleum, and petrochemical sectors?
E.O. 13846 reimposes sanctions previously set out in E.O.s 13622, 13628, and 13645 with respect to the Iranian energy, petroleum, and petrochemical sectors. As such, subsections 1(a)(ii) and (2)(a)(ii) of E.O. 13846 authorize blocking sanctions and correspondent or payable-through account sanctions on persons providing material support for, or goods or services to, NIOC or NICO. Separately, subsection 2(a)(iii) of E.O. 13846 authorizes the imposition of correspondent or payable-through account sanctions on an FFI determined to have knowingly conducted or facilitated any significant financial transaction with NIOC or NICO (except for sales of refined petroleum products to NIOC or NICO that are below the dollar threshold that could trigger sanctions under section 5(a)(3)(A)(i) of ISA). Subsections 2(a)(iv)-(a)(v) provide authority to impose sanctions on FFIs determined to have knowingly conducted or facilitated a significant transaction for the purchase, acquisition, sale, transport, or marketing of petroleum, petroleum products, or petrochemicals from Iran, with the aim of deterring Iran or any other country or institution from establishing workaround payment mechanisms for the purchase of Iranian oil to circumvent the NDAA 2012 oil sanctions. Subsections 3(a)(ii)-(a)(iii) provide authority to impose menu-based sanctions or persons determined to have engaged in a significant transaction for the purchase, acquisition, sale, transport, or marketing of petroleum or petroleum products from Iran. Furthermore, persons that sell, supply, or transfer to or from Iran significant goods or services used in connection with Iran’s energy sector are exposed to menu-based sanctions pursuant to subsection 1244(d) of IFCA and section 5 of E.O. 13846 The existing exception rules under NDAA 2012 apply to these sanctions. Thus, countries that are determined by the Secretary of State to have significantly reduced their purchases of Iranian crude oil will be excepted from these measures as well. (See FAQs 169-182 relating to the NDAA 2012 sanctions.)
The provisions in E.O. 13846 reimposing these sanctions come into effect beginning on November 5, 2018.
Released on August 6, 2018
615. Does E.O. 13846 mean that Iran’s trade partners should no longer buy petroleum products from Iran? How will this affect exports of Iranian oil?
These measures, which apply to transactions occurring on or after November 5, 2018, establish a key element of the comprehensive Iran sanctions framework by deterring work-around financial transactions involving NIOC or NICO that were not being captured under the sanctions previously implemented against the CBI at the time E.O. 13622 was issued. Iranian trade partners can continue to buy petroleum and petroleum products from Iran without risking sanctions under E.O. 13846 if they receive a significant reduction exception under relevant provisions of the NDAA 2012 for the relevant period. However, E.O. 13846 provides authority to sanction, on or after November 5, 2018, the purchase of petroleum or petroleum products and significant dealings with NIOC or NICO by persons in jurisdictions that do not have a significant reduction exception. In addition, IFCA provides for sanctions on persons determined to be part of the energy sector of Iran, or to sell, supply, or transfer to or from Iran significant goods or services used in connection with the energy sector of Iran, provided the person is not in a jurisdiction that has received a significant reduction exception. (See FAQs 293-297 relating to IFCA.)
Released on August 6, 2018
616. Can countries that receive a significant reduction exception under NDAA 2012 purchase oil through NIOC and NICO without facing sanctions?
All property and interests in property of NIOC and NICO subject to U.S. jurisdiction are already blocked pursuant to E.O. 13599, and U.S. persons are prohibited from all dealings with these entities. E.O. 13846 reestablishes the authority previously contained in E.O. 13622 to sanction FFIs that, on or after November 5, 2018, knowingly conduct or facilitate any significant transaction with NIOC or NICO. Financial institutions in jurisdictions that have received a significant reduction exception are not subject to these sanctions for transactions with NIOC and NICO for the purchase of petroleum or petroleum products from Iran while the exception applies. In addition, IFCA provides for sanctions on persons that knowingly provide significant financial, material, technological, or other support to, or goods or services in support of any activity or transaction on behalf of or for the benefit of an Iranian person on the SDN List (other than non-designated Iranian financial institutions), provided the person is not in a jurisdiction that has received a significant reduction exception. (See FAQs 293-297 relating to IFCA.)
Released on August 6, 2018
617. E.O. 13846 targets transactions between foreign financial institutions and NIOC and NICO. What about a NIOC or NICO subsidiary? Are transactions with those entities also sanctionable under this E.O.?
Yes. As in E.O. 13622, E.O. 13846 defines NIOC and NICO to include any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for or on behalf of, NIOC and NICO.
Released on August 6, 2018
618. Does E.O. 13846 make sanctionable activities related to the pipeline project to supply natural gas from the Shah Deniz gas field in Azerbaijan to Europe and Turkey, given that NICO reportedly has a 10 percent stake in the project?
No. Section 10 of E.O. 13846 maintains the exceptions previously provided for in E.O. 13622 and E.O. 13645, as well as in subsection 603(a) of the TRA and section 1254 of IFCA, for the pipeline project to supply natural gas from the Shah Deniz gas field in Azerbaijan to Europe and Turkey.
Released on August 6, 2018
619. Are barter arrangements or other non-cash trade transactions involving petroleum, petroleum products, or petrochemical products originating from Iran sanctionable under the terms of E.O. 13846?
Yes. To the extent a financial institution is involved, that financial institution could be sanctioned under E.O. 13846 for a barter arrangement, on or after November 5, 2018, related to the purchase or acquisition of petroleum, petroleum products, or petrochemical products from Iran. In addition, barter transactions knowingly conducted with NIOC, NICO, or the CBI also could result in sanctions — regardless of whether a financial institution is involved — to the extent that those transactions constitute material support for, or services to, NIOC, NICO, or the CBI.
Released on August 6, 2018
620. What are the definitions of "petroleum products" and "petrochemical products"?
The term "petroleum products," as defined in section 16(o) of E.O. 13846 , includes unfinished oils, liquefied petroleum gases, pentanes plus, aviation gasoline, motor gasoline, naphtha-type jet fuel, kerosene-type jet fuel, kerosene, distillate fuel oil, residual fuel oil, petrochemical feedstocks, special naphthas, lubricants, waxes, petroleum coke, asphalt, road oil, still gas, and miscellaneous products obtained from the processing of: crude oil (including lease condensate), natural gas, and other hydrocarbon compounds. The term does not include natural gas, liquefied natural gas, biofuels, methanol, and other non-petroleum fuels.
The term "petrochemical products," as defined in section 16(m) of E.O. 13846, includes any aromatic, olefin, and synthesis gas, and any of their derivatives, including ethylene, propylene, butadiene, benzene, toluene, xylene, ammonia, methanol, and urea.
Released on August 6, 2018
621. What is the prohibition on U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entities, and how does it work?
Consistent with Section 218 of TRA , section 8 of E.O. 13846 continues in effect the sanctions previously contained in section 4 of E.O. 13628 and expands them to cover activity sanctionable under E.O. 13846 (see FAQ 601 ). This provision prohibits a U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity from knowingly engaging in any transaction, directly or indirectly, with the GOI, or any person subject to the jurisdiction of the GOI, if that transaction would be prohibited by certain Executive orders prohibiting trade and other dealings with, and investment in, Iran and blocking the GOI and Iranian financial institutions, or any regulation issued pursuant to the foregoing (including the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations, 31 C.F.R. part 560 (ITSR)), if the transaction were engaged in by a United States person or in the United States. Civil penalties for the U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity’s violation of Section 8, attempted violation, conspiracy to violate, or causing of a violation shall apply to the U.S. person that owns or controls such entity to the same extent that they would apply to a U.S. person for the same conduct.
Section 20(c) of E.O. 13846 contains a savings clause that continues in effect under E.O. 13846 regulations, orders, directives, and licenses that were issued pursuant to E.O. 13628 and remained in effect immediately prior to the date of E.O. 13846 Pursuant to this authority, section 560.215 of the ITSR, which implemented section 4 of 13628, and licenses issued pursuant to E.O. 13628 that were valid as of the date of E.O. 13846 remain in effect, subject to their existing terms and conditions. Such terms and conditions include the expiration date of the license
Released on August 6, 2018
622. Are U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entities covered under OFAC general licenses and/or permitted to apply for specific licenses from OFAC?
To the extent a transaction is exempt from the prohibitions of the ITSR , E.O. 13599 , or section 1 or 15 of E.O. 13846 , or is authorized by a general license issued pursuant to these authorities if engaged in by a U.S. person, it would not be prohibited for a U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity (as defined above) to engage in the transaction, provided that it satisfies all the conditions and requirements of the exemption or general license. Similarly, if the transaction is one for which a U.S. person might apply for a specific license — for example, under OFAC’s statement of licensing policy for certain targeted educational, cultural, and sports exchange programs that are designed to directly benefit the Iranian people set forth at section 560.545 of the ITSR — a U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity or the U.S. person that owns or controls the entity may apply for a specific license for the U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity to engage in the transaction. Note: whether a U.S. parent company’s specific license covers transactions by its owned or controlled foreign entity that are otherwise prohibited by section 8 of E.O. 13846 will depend on the terms of that license and the scope of the authorized activities.
Pursuant to subsection 20(c) of E.O. 13846, section 560.556 of the ITSR, which extends general licenses available under the ITSR to U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entities, remains in effect.
Released on August 6, 2018
623. Is there a wind-down or safe harbor provision for Section 8 of E.O. 13846?
No. Section 8 of E.O. 13846 continues in effect the prohibition previously contained in section 4 of E.O. 13628, which — consistent with subsection 218(d) of the TRA — provided that civil penalties would not apply if a U.S. person that owns or controls the foreign entity divested or terminated its business with the U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity not later than February 6, 2013. Because the relevant prohibition came into effect more than five years ago and a wind-down period was provided at that time, Section 8 of E.O. 13846 does not include such a wind-down authorization.
Please note, however, that section 560.537 of the ITSR authorizes — through 11:59 p.m. EST on November 4, 2018 — all transactions and activities ordinarily incident and necessary to the wind down of activities that had been authorized under the now-revoked Iran General License H. To the extent a U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity or a U.S. person is engaging in wind-down activities pursuant to section 560.537 of the ITSR, those activities should be completed prior to the general license’s expiration at 11:59 p.m. EST on November 4, 2018.
Released on August 6, 2018
624. What are the implications of subsection 1(a)(iii) of E.O. 13846?
Subsection 1(a)(iii) of E.O. 13846 provides authority to block the property and interests in property of persons determined, on or after November 5, 2018, to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of: (A) Iranian persons included on the SDN List or (B) any other persons included on the SDN List whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to Executive Order 13599 or subsection 1(a) of E.O. 13846 (in both cases excluding Iranian depository institutions whose property and interests in property are blocked solely pursuant to Executive Order 13599). Certain activities relating to the pipeline project to supply natural gas from the Shah Deniz gas field in Azerbaijan to Europe and Turkey are excepted from this provision.
In implementing this provision, the United States Government will take appropriate steps to avoid, among other things, undue impacts on the access of the people of Iran to humanitarian items, telecommunications, and other basic services.
Released on August 6, 2018
630. Is the provision or delivery of goods or services to an Iranian counterparty after November 4, 2018 allowed?
The wind-down period has ended and the United States intends to fully enforce the sanctions that have come back into effect. The provision or delivery of goods or services and/or the extension of additional loans or credits to an Iranian counterparty after November 4, 2018 — even pursuant to written contracts or written agreements entered into prior to May 8, 2018 — may result in the imposition of U.S. sanctions unless such activities are exempt from regulation, authorized by OFAC, or otherwise not sanctionable.
The United States maintains authorizations and exceptions under U.S. sanctions that allow for the sale of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, and medical devices to Iran by U.S. persons and non-U.S. persons. However, these authorizations and exceptions do not apply to transactions involving persons on OFAC’s List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons (SDN List) that have been designated in connection with Iran’s support for international terrorism or proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, including designated Iranian financial institutions or the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), or activity that is subject to other sanctions (see FAQ 637 ).
Released on November 5, 2018
631. I was not able to receive payment for goods or services fully provided or delivered prior to the end of the wind-down period.How should I proceed?
In the event that a non-U.S., non-Iranian person is owed payment after the conclusion of the wind-down period on August 6, 2018, or November 4, 2018, as applicable, for goods or services fully provided or delivered to an Iranian counterparty prior to August 6, 2018, or November 4, 2018, as applicable, pursuant to a written contract or written agreement entered into prior to May 8, 2018, and such activities were consistent with U.S. sanctions in effect at the time of delivery or provision, the U.S. government would allow the non-U.S., non-Iranian person to receive payment for those goods or services according to the terms of the written contract or written agreement. Similarly, if a non-U.S., non-Iranian person is owed repayment after August 6, 2018, or November 4, 2018, as applicable, for loans or credits extended to an Iranian counterparty prior to the end of the 90-day or 180- day wind-down period, as applicable, provided that such loans or credits were extended pursuant to a written contract or written agreement entered into prior to May 8, 2018, and such activities were consistent with U.S. sanctions in effect at the time the loans or credits were extended, the U.S. government would allow the non-U.S., non-Iranian person to receive repayment of the related debt or obligation according to the terms of the written contract or written agreement. This allowance is designed for non-U.S., non-Iranian parties to be made whole for debts and obligations owed or due to them for goods or services fully provided or delivered or loans or credit extended to an Iranian party prior to the end of the 90-day or 180-day wind-down period, as applicable. Any payments would need to be consistent with U.S. sanctions, including that payments could not involve U.S. persons or the U.S. financial system, unless the transactions are exempt from regulation or authorized by OFAC (see FAQ 634 and FAQ 636 ).
The U.S. government would evaluate matters falling outside the above parameters on a case-by-case basis.
Released on November 5, 2018
632. Will the U.S. government provide assurances beyond the guidance described in 631 and 634 that receipt of payment by non-U.S., non-Iranian persons is not sanctionable?
OFAC encourages non-U.S., non-Iranian persons to rely on the guidance provided in FAQs 631 and 634. Non-U.S., non-Iranian persons can seek guidance from OFAC or the State Department, as appropriate, prior to the receipt of payment, if they would like to confirm that the payments would meet the criteria set forth in FAQ 631 and FAQ 634 and would not be subject to U.S. sanctions.
Released on November 5, 2018
633. Under what circumstances are goods or services considered “fully provided or delivered” prior to the expiration of the relevant wind-down period, as referenced in FAQ 631 above?
OFAC looks to the industry standard to determine whether particular goods or services are considered fully provided or delivered prior to the expiration of the relevant wind-down period. As a general matter, goods or services will be considered fully provided or delivered when the party providing or delivering the goods or services has performed all the actions and satisfied all the obligations necessary to be eligible for payment or other agreed-to compensation. With respect to goods exported to or from Iran, at a minimum, title to the goods must have transferred to the relevant party
Released on August 6, 2018
634. Can I, as a non-U.S., non-Iranian person, receive payments after the relevant wind-down period ends for goods or services that were fully provided or delivered during the relevant wind-down period pursuant to contracts entered into prior to May 8, 2018?
Yes, subject to the conditions set out below and in FAQ 631 above, non-U.S., non-Iranian persons may receive payment after the end of the relevant wind-down period for goods or services fully provided or delivered to an Iranian counterparty prior to expiration of the relevant wind-down period (see FAQ 633 above). In particular, the goods or services must have been fully provided or delivered prior to the end of the applicable wind-down period pursuant to a written contract or written agreement entered into prior to May 8, 2018; the relevant activities must have been consistent with U.S. sanctions in effect at the time of delivery or provision, including that the activities did not involve persons on the SDN List at the time of the transaction; and any payments must be consistent with U.S. sanctions, including that payments can not involve U.S. persons or the U.S. financial system, unless the transactions are exempt from regulation or authorized by OFAC (see FAQ 631 and FAQ 636 ).
Released on November 5, 2018
635. Can I, as a U.S. person or U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity, receive payments after the relevant wind-down period ends for goods or services that were fully provided or delivered during the relevant wind-down period under an OFAC wind-down authorization and pursuant to a contract entered into prior to May 8, 2018?
The wind-down authorizations allow U.S. persons and U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entities to receive payments for activities conducted pursuant to such wind-down authorizations only during their validity periods. For example, a U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity may receive payment through 11:59 p.m. eastern standard time on November 4, 2018 for Iran-related activities undertaken pursuant to section 560.537 of the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations (ITSR) (winding down of transactions relating to U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entities).
Any payment following the end of the relevant wind-down period for activities undertaken pursuant to a wind-down authorization, including from an Iranian counterparty, would require specific authorization from OFAC. OFAC will evaluate such requests for specific licenses on a case-by-case basis.
Any request for a specific license should provide sufficient details for OFAC to evaluate the application, including: whether the relevant transactions complied with U.S. sanctions as in effect at the time of the transactions; whether the activities were performed under a written contract or written agreement entered into prior to May 8, 2018; and why the applicant was unable to receive the payment for which authorization is sought prior to the end of the relevant wind-down period. OFAC will generally deny requests to receive payment for activities that were not authorized under the relevant wind-down authorizations or that were not undertaken pursuant to a written contract or written agreement entered into prior to May 8, 2018.
As required by 31 C.F.R. section 501.801(b), applicants should identify the names of all parties who are concerned with or interested in the proposed transaction. To facilitate OFAC’s review, the request should also include a description of the efforts that were undertaken to collect the payment during the relevant wind-down period and be accompanied by supporting documentation, including relevant contracts, invoices, and shipping documents. OFAC encourages applicants to submit applications online using OFAC's licensing application portal .
Released on November 5, 2018
636. Can I receive payment for activities undertaken during the wind-down period if the payment involves a person that has been added to the SDN List, including a person that was previously on the List of Persons Blocked Solely Pursuant to E.O. 13599 (the “E.O. 13599 List”) but is now designated under another authority?
The United States intends to fully enforce the sanctions that apply to persons that were previously on the E.O. 13599 List but that are now designated under another authority.
U.S. persons and U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entities generally would require an OFAC authorization to receive any payment involving an SDN, regardless of whether they were previously on the E.O.13599 List. OFAC will evaluate requests for such authorization on a case-by-case basis, including whether payments are for goods or services fully provided or delivered during the wind-down period pursuant to an OFAC wind-down authorization (see FAQ 635 ).
Non-U.S. persons, including foreign financial institutions, could be subject to sanctions for knowingly engaging in certain significant transactions involving an Iranian person on the SDN List – other than a non-designated Iranian financial institution – or a person designated in connection with Iran’s support for international terrorism or proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, including a person that was previously on the E.O. 13599 List but is now designated under another authority. Such persons will have a notation of “Additional Sanctions Information – Subject to Secondary Sanctions” in their SDN List entry in addition to the tag for the other sanctions program(s) (e.g., the “[SDGT]” tag, the “[IRAN-HR]” tag, or the “[NPWMD]” tag for persons designated under E.O. 13224, E.O. 13553, or E.O. 13382).
Non-U.S., non-Iranian persons seeking to receive payment for activities undertaken during the wind-down period that involves a person added to the SDN List should seek guidance from OFAC or the State Department, as appropriate (see FAQ 634 ).
Released on November 5, 2018
637. Is it sanctionable for non-U.S., non-Iranian persons to engage in transactions related to the provision of humanitarian and consumer goods to Iran?
The United States maintains broad authorizations and exceptions under U.S. sanctions that allow for the sale of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, and medical devices to Iran from the United States or by U.S. persons or U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entities. U.S. sanctions laws provide similar allowances for sales of food, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices to Iran by non-U.S. persons. Broadly speaking, transactions for the sale of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices to Iran are not sanctionable unless they involve persons on the SDN List that have been designated in connection with Iran’s support for international terrorism or proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, including designated Iranian financial institutions or the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), or activity that is subject to other sanctions. Additional guidance relating to these authorizations and exceptions can be found in the following OFAC publications:  Guidance on the Sale of Food, Agricultural Commodities, Medicine, and Medical Devices by Non-U.S. Persons to Iran  and Humanitarian Assistance and Related Exports to the Iranian People .
Transactions by non-U.S. persons related to the export to Iran of consumer goods that do not fall within these exceptions, but are not expressly targeted by U.S. sanctions, should not involve certain persons on the SDN List, including the Central Bank of Iran or a designated Iranian financial institution, unless an exception under Section 1245(d)(4)(D) of the National Defense Authorization Act of Fiscal Year 2012 (NDAA 2012) applies, or the IRGC. In addition, such transactions should not involve U.S. persons or transit the U.S. financial system, unless the activities and/or transactions are exempt from regulation or authorized by OFAC.
Released on November 5, 2018
638. What happened to the E.O. 13599 List?
The E.O. 13599 List was created to clarify that, regardless of their removal from the SDN List on January 16, 2016, persons that OFAC had previously identified as meeting the definition of the terms "Government of Iran" or "Iranian financial institution" still met those definitions and continued to be persons whose property and interests in property were blocked pursuant to E.O. 13599 and section 560.211 of the ITSR. On November 5, 2018, OFAC moved persons identified on the E.O. 13599 List to the SDN List and removed the E.O. 13599 List from its website.
Beginning on November 5, 2018, significant transactions with persons moved from the E.O. 13599 List to the SDN List, other than non-designated Iranian financial institutions, could be subject to secondary sanctions, unless an exception applies, such as the exception relating to transactions for the sale of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices to Iran; or the significant reduction exception under Section 1245(d)(4)(D) of the NDAA 2012 . Persons subject to secondary sanctions will have a notation of "Additional Sanctions Information - Subject to Secondary Sanctions" in the SDN List entry. In addition, effective November 5, 2018, OFAC has amended the ITSR to replace references to the E.O. 13599 List with references to the SDN List.
Some persons moved to the SDN List from the E.O. 13599 List also have been designated under additional authorities and, therefore, have received new unique identification numbers (UIDs) when added to the SDN List. Users of OFAC's sanctions list data may wish to reference the following mapping table to see how these specific records were added back onto the SDN list.
Released on November 5, 2018
639. Why are some persons that had been blocked solely pursuant to E.O. 13599 now designated pursuant to other authorities, such as E.O. 13224 and E.O. 13382?
OFAC designated multiple Iranian financial institutions and other persons previously blocked solely pursuant to E.O. 13599 under E.O. 13224 (relating to counterterrorism), E.O. 13382 (relating to WMD proliferation), and E.O. 13553 (relating to serious human rights abuses by the Government of Iran) on October 16, 2018, and November 5, 2018. These included persons that had been removed from the SDN List on January 16, 2016. As new information became available, OFAC determined that these persons met one or more of the criteria for designation under OFAC’s other designation authorities. Relatedly, a number of persons that were previously designated pursuant to E.O. 13382 and were removed from the SDN List on January 16, 2016 were relisted on the SDN List on November 5, 2018 as persons identified as meeting the definitions of the “Government of Iran” or an “Iranian financial institution” pursuant to E.O. 13599.
Released on November 5, 2018
640. What does the November 5, 2018 amendment to the ITSR do?
This regulatory amendment does two things. First, it amends the ITSR to reflect the re-imposition of ITSR-related sanctions lifted under the JCPOA, including sanctions pursuant to certain sections of E.O. 13846 and the relisting on the SDN List of persons included on the E.O. 13599 List. More specifically, this rule reinstates the regulatory provisions implementing the blocking authorities that were previously in sections 5 and 6 of E.O. 13622 and now are in sections 1 and 10 of E.O. 13846. Section 560.211(c) of the ITSR will now implement blocking of the property and interests in property of any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to have (i) on or after August 7, 2018, materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of, the purchase or acquisition of U.S. bank notes or precious metals by the Government of Iran, or (ii) on or after November 5, 2018, materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of, the National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC), the Naftiran Intertrade Company (NICO), or the Central Bank of Iran. Additionally, this rule removes references to the E.O. 13599 List to reflect OFAC’s separate action removing the E.O. 13599 List from its website and relisting on the SDN List the persons that were previously listed on the E.O. 13599 List.
Second, the rule amends an existing general license in the ITSR to allow individual U.S. persons to engage in transactions necessary to sell certain personal property in Iran (which was acquired before becoming a U.S. person or which was inherited from persons in Iran) and to transfer the proceeds of those sales to the United States. Section 560.543 of the ITSR currently authorizes individual U.S. persons to engage in transactions necessary for the sale of real property in Iran and the transfer of related proceeds to the United States, subject to a number of conditions and limitations. Authorized transactions include engaging the services of any persons in Iran necessary for the sale, such as an attorney, funds agent, or real estate broker, provided such person is not a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of 31 CFR chapter V, other than persons whose property and interests in property are blocked solely pursuant to Executive Order 13599 as the Government of Iran. OFAC is amending section 560.543 of the ITSR to authorize the sale of personal property in Iran and the transfer of related proceeds to the United States, subject to the same conditions and limitations applicable to sales of real property.
Section 560.543 of the ITSR, as amended, does not authorize transactions that would be prohibited by a different sanctions program administered by OFAC, such as transactions with SDNs designated under E.O. 13224 or E.O. 13382 (OFAC's counterterrorism or counterproliferation authorities).
Released on November 5, 2018
641. If a country with primary jurisdiction over a foreign financial institution did not receive a significant reduction exception (SRE) under section 1245(d)(4)(D) of the NDAA 2012, can funds currently held at the foreign financial institution in that country on behalf of the Central Bank of Iran be used to facilitate humanitarian trade with Iran?
Yes. Transactions for the sale of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices to Iran involving the Central Bank of Iran are excepted from the relevant sanctions under section 1245(d)(2) of the NDAA 2012 and sections 561.203 and 561.204 of the Iranian Financial Sanctions Regulations (31 C.F.R. Part 561) (IFSR), regardless of whether the country has received an SRE. In addition, funds held on behalf of a non-designated Iranian financial institution at a foreign financial institution generally would not be subject to U.S. secondary sanctions and could be used to facilitate humanitarian trade.
Released on November 5, 2018
642. Is the provision of certain associated services relating to the purchase of petroleum or petroleum products from Iran by persons in a country that has been granted a SRE sanctionable?
Many U.S. sanctions related to Iran include an exception for countries that have received a SRE under section 1245(d)(4)(D) of the NDAA 2012 (see https://ofac.treasury.gov/faqs/topic/1551  for additional information regarding the implementation of the SRE and sanctionable transactions). To the extent the purchase of petroleum or petroleum products from Iran and the processing of the related financial transactions meet the requirements set out in section 1245(d)(4)(D) of the NDAA 2012, the services used to import the petroleum from Iran including services provided by the shipping sector of Iran and Iranian port operators would not be sanctionable pursuant to the Iran Freedom and Counter-Proliferation Act of 2012 (IFCA), provided that Iranian entities that are involved in such transactions are not designated in connection with Iran’s support for international terrorism, or its proliferation of weapons of mass destruction or their means of delivery. ( Additional information on IFCA ).
Released on November 5, 2018
643. Is payment of Iran-related insurance or reinsurance claims made on or after November 5, 2018 sanctionable if the claim arises from an incident that occurred prior to November 5, 2018?
Payment of Iran-related insurance or reinsurance claims arising from incidents that occurred prior to November 5, 2018 could create sanctions exposure for non-U.S. persons to the extent such payment involves a person designated in connection with Iran’s proliferation of WMD or support for international terrorism, or an Iranian person on the SDN List, other than a non-designated Iranian financial institution, or if the underlying activity involved such persons or was otherwise sanctionable at the time it occurred.
U.S. persons continue to be generally prohibited under the ITSR from exporting goods, services, or technology directly or indirectly to Iran, including participating in the payment of claims to or for the benefit of Iran or any persons blocked under the ITSR, or for the transportation of Iranian-origin oil, unless exempt or specifically authorized by OFAC. In addition, after November 4, 2018, to the extent a claim payment involves a U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity, the payment of such claim would be prohibited and would require an authorization from OFAC prior to payment.
See FAQ 102 and FAQ 103 for additional information relating to U.S. person involvement in global insurance policies and FAQ 303 and FAQ 304 for additional information on secondary sanctions, and exceptions to these sanctions, such as the humanitarian exception, relating to insurance, reinsurance, or underwriting activities relating to Iran.
Released on November 5, 2018
644. Is an entity that is owned or controlled by a U.S. person and established or maintained outside the United States (a “U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity”) required to apply restrictions akin to blocking on the property or interests in property of persons subject to section 560.211 of the ITSR?
Yes. Under section 560.215 of the ITSR, U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entities are prohibited from knowingly engaging in any transaction, directly or indirectly, with the Government of Iran or any person subject to the jurisdiction of the Government of Iran that would be prohibited by the ITSR if engaged in by a U.S. person or in the United States. Section 560.211 of the ITSR separately prohibits transferring, paying, exporting, withdrawing, and dealing in any property and interests in property of the Government of Iran, any Iranian financial institution, and any other persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the ITSR, unless exempt or authorized by OFAC.
In light of these prohibitions, U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entities are required to apply restrictions akin to blocking on any property or interests in property of persons subject to section 560.211 of the ITSR to ensure that such property and interests in property are not transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in. This requirement applies both with respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked solely pursuant to the ITSR and a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the ITSR and another authority (e.g., when a person is included on the List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons with the “[IRAN]” tag, as well as a tag for another sanctions program, such as the terrorism tag (“[SDGT]”), nuclear proliferation tag (“[NPWMD]”), or human rights tag (“[IRAN-TRA]” or “[IRAN-HR]”)).
Section 560.215(b)(1) of the ITSR deems an entity to be “owned or controlled” by a U.S. person if the U.S. person holds a 50 percent or greater equity interest by vote or value in the entity; holds a majority of seats on the board of directors of the entity; or otherwise controls the actions, policies, or personnel decisions of the entity.
Released on November 5, 2018
645. How will the re-imposition of sanctions on November 5, 2018 impact the provision of specialized financial messaging services to Iranian financial institutions?
Following the re-imposition of U.S. sanctions on November 5, 2018, sanctions that had previously been lifted or waived as part of U.S. commitments under the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) will come back into effect in their entirety, including sanctions on the provision of specialized financial messaging services to certain Iranian financial institutions.
As of November 5, 2018, sanctions on the provision of specialized financial messaging services set forth in section 220 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (TRA) snap back in full. This authority provides for sanctions on specialized financial messaging services to the Central Bank of Iran or Iranian financial institutions designated in connection with Iran’s support for terrorism or its proliferation of weapons of mass destruction (WMD) and WMD delivery systems, as set out in subsection 104(c)(2)(E)(ii) of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (CISADA) (see section 220 of the TRA). Such Iranian financial institutions are listed on the SDN List and carry the “[IFSR]” tag.
Furthermore, knowingly providing significant financial, material, technological, or other support to Iranian persons on the SDN List, other than Iranian financial institutions blocked solely pursuant to E.O. 13599 and listed on the SDN List with only the “[IRAN]” tag, is sanctionable for persons in countries that have not received a significant reduction exception (see subsection 1244(c)(1) of IFCA).
To avoid potential sanctions exposure, providers of specialized financial messaging services should discontinue the provision of such services to the Central Bank of Iran and any Iranian financial institutions designated in connection with Iran’s WMD proliferation, support for terrorism, or human rights abuses. The Central Bank of Iran and such designated Iranian financial institutions will have “Subject to Secondary Sanctions” listed in the “Identifications” feature in their entry on the SDN List.
Given that the U.S. government will continue to apply maximum financial pressure on the Iranian regime, including potential additional designations of Iranian financial institutions, the SDN List should be consulted regularly to determine which Iranian financial institutions have been designated.
Released on November 5, 2018
666. What does E.O. 13871 do?
E.O. 13871 authorizes sanctions with respect to the iron, steel, aluminum, and copper sectors of Iran.
Section 1 of E.O. 13871 authorizes blocking sanctions on any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(i) to be operating in the iron, steel, aluminum, or copper sector of Iran, or to be a person that owns, controls, or operates an entity that is part of the iron, steel, aluminum, or copper sector of Iran;
(ii) to have knowingly engaged, on or after the effective date of the order, in a significant transaction for the sale, supply, or transfer to Iran of significant goods or services used in connection with the iron, steel, aluminum, or copper sectors of Iran;
(iii) to have knowingly engaged, on or after the effective date of the order, in a significant transaction for the purchase, acquisition, sale, transport, or marketing of iron, iron products, aluminum, aluminum products, steel, steel products, copper, or copper products from Iran;
(iv) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 1; or
(v) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 1.
Section 2 of E.O. 13871 authorizes correspondent and payable-through account sanctions on foreign financial institutions (FFIs) determined to have knowingly conducted or facilitated any significant financial transaction:
(i) for the sale, supply, or transfer to Iran of significant goods or services used in connection with the iron, steel, aluminum, or copper sectors of Iran;
(ii) for the purchase, acquisition, sale, transport, or marketing of iron, iron products, aluminum, aluminum products, steel, steel products, copper, or copper products from Iran; or
(iii) for or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the order.
Sections 3-13 of E.O. 13871 contain exceptions, definitions, and other implementing provisions related to the sanctions.
Released on August 6, 2019
667. When does E.O. 13871 become effective?
E.O. 13871 became effective upon signing.
Released on August 6, 2019
668. Is there a wind-down period?
Persons engaged in transactions that could be sanctioned under E.O. 13871 had a 90-day period after the issuance of E.O. 13871 to wind down those transactions without exposure to sanctions under E.O. 13871. Those persons were advised to take the necessary steps to wind down transactions by the end of the 90-day wind-down period to avoid exposure to sanctions, and that entering into new business that would be sanctionable under the E.O. on or after May 8, 2019 will not be considered wind-down activity and could be sanctioned even during the wind-down period. The wind-down period expires on August 6, 2019.
Released on August 6, 2019
669. Does E.O. 13871 expand upon existing sanctions relating to trade with Iran in certain raw and semi-finished metals, such as aluminum and steel?
Yes. E.O. 13871 expands upon existing sanctions under section 1245 of IFCA on the sale, supply, or transfer, directly or indirectly, to or from Iran of certain materials, including raw and semi-finished metals such as aluminum and steel, as described in subsections 1245(a)(l)(B) or (C) of IFCA.
In addition, E.O. 13871 explicitly targets the iron and copper sectors of Iran.
Released on August 6, 2019
670. Are there exceptions to the sanctions imposed under E.O.13871?
Yes. The sanctions authorized under E.O. 13871 do not apply to transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government or the United Nations (including its specialized agencies, programmes, funds, and related organizations) by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.
Released on August 6, 2019
671. How are the terms “significant transaction or transactions; significant financial services; significant financial transaction” interpreted for purposes of correspondent or payable-through account sanctions set forth in section 2 of E.O. 13871?
The interpretation of “significant transaction or transactions; significant financial services; significant financial transaction,” as described in the correspondent account sanctions in the IFSR, provides that the Department of the Treasury may consider the totality of the facts and circumstances and sets forth a list of broad factors that can play a role in the determination whether transactions, financial services, and financial transactions are significant, including: (a) the size, number, and frequency of the transactions, financial services, or financial transactions; (b) the nature of the transactions, financial services, or financial transactions, including their type, complexity, and commercial purpose; (c) the level of awareness of management and whether the transactions are part of a pattern of conduct; (d) the nexus of the transactions, financial services, and financial transactions and blocked persons; (e) the impact of the transactions, financial services, and financial transactions on statutory objectives; (f) whether the transactions, financial services, and financial transactions involve deceptive practices; (g) whether the transactions solely involve the passive holdings of Central Bank of Iran (CBI) reserves or repayment by the CBI of official development assistance or the transfer of funds required as a condition of Iran’s membership in an international financial institution; and (h) other relevant factors that the Secretary of the Treasury deems relevant. (31 C.F.R. § 561.404).
Released on August 6, 2019
682. What does the August 06, 2019 regulatory amendment related to E.O. 13871 do?
The regulatory amendment: (i) implements the correspondent or payable-through account sanctions set forth in section 2 of E.O. 13871 by incorporating those provisions in the Iranian Financial Sanctions Regulations, 31 C.F.R. part 561 (IFSR); (ii) renames the Iranian Human Rights Regulations, 31 C.F.R. part 562, as the Iranian Sector and Human Rights Abuses Sanctions Regulations (ISHR); and (iii) implements the blocking sanctions set forth in section 1 of E.O. 13871 by incorporating those provisions in the ISHR.
Released on August 6, 2019
683. How is the term “significant transaction or transactions” interpreted for purposes of blocking sanctions set forth in section 1 of E.O. 13871?
The interpretation of “significant transaction or transactions,” as described in the ISHR provides that the Department of the Treasury may consider the totality of the facts and circumstances and sets forth a list of broad factors that can play a role in the determination whether transactions are significant, including: (a) the size, number, and frequency of the transactions; (b) the nature of the transactions, or the goods or services for sale, supply, or transfer, including their type, complexity, and commercial purpose; (c) the level of awareness of management and whether the transactions are part of a pattern of conduct; (d) the nexus of the person that engaged in the transactions and the prohibited activities in sections 1(a)(ii) and 1(a)(iii) of E.O. 13871 ; (e) the impact of the transactions on the objectives of E.O. 13871; (f) whether the transactions attempt to obscure or conceal the actual parties or true nature of the transactions, or evade sanctions; and (g) other relevant factors that the Secretary of the Treasury deems relevant. (31 C.F.R. § 562.407).
Released on August 6, 2019
684. What is the definition of the “iron sector of Iran”?
The term iron sector of Iran means the mining, refining, processing, or manufacturing of iron or iron products in Iran. (31 C.F.R. § 561.336; 31 C.F.R. § 561.317).
Released on August 6, 2019
685. What is the definition of the “steel sector of Iran”?
The term steel sector of Iran means the iron-ore smelting, ferrous-scrap melting, refining, processing, or manufacturing of steel or steel products in Iran. (31 C.F.R. § 561.337; 31 C.F.R. § 562.318).
Released on August 6, 2019
686. What are the definitions of “iron, iron products, steel, and steel products”?
The terms iron, iron products, steel, and steel products mean any raw, semi-fabricated, fabricated, or finished form of iron, iron alloy, alloy steel, non-alloy steel, ferroalloys, pig iron, and spiegeleisen of all grades, sizes, and thicknesses, whether or not clad, plated, or coated, including in the following forms: iron ores and concentrates, including roasted iron pyrites; pigs and blocks; ferrous products obtained by direct reduction of iron ore and other spongy ferrous products, in lumps or pellets; granules and powders; ingots, blooms billets, slabs, and beam blanks; flat-rolled products (plates, sheets, strips, and foils) either cut-to-length or in coils; bars and rods; structural profiles (beams, channels, angles, and other shapes); sheet piling; railway or tramway track construction materials; tubes, pipes, and hollow profiles; tube or pipe fittings; reservoirs, tanks, vats, and similar containers; wire, stranded wire, ropes, cables, and plaited band; castings, stampings, and forgings; and ferrous waste and scrap, including slag. (31 C.F.R. § 561.335; 31 C.F.R. § 562.316).
Released on August 6, 2019
687. What is the definition of the “aluminum sector of Iran”?
The term aluminum sector of Iran means the mining, refining, processing, or manufacturing of aluminum or aluminum products in Iran. (31 C.F.R. § 561.332; 31 C.F.R. § 562.313).
Released on August 6, 2019
688. What are the definitions of “aluminum” and “aluminum products”?
The terms aluminum and aluminum products mean any raw, semi-fabricated, fabricated, or finished form of aluminum or aluminum alloy of all grades, sizes, and thicknesses, including in the following forms: ores and concentrates (e.g., bauxite and alumina); unwrought aluminum including ingots, slabs, and billets; powders and flakes; wrought aluminum including bars, rods, profiles, plates, sheets, strip, foil, tubes, and pipes; tube or pipe fittings; reservoirs, tanks, vats, and similar containers; wire, stranded wire, ropes, cables, and plaited band; castings, stampings, and forgings; waste and scrap, including slag, and any aluminum and aluminum products produced from the melting or recycling of aluminum scrap. (31 C.F.R. § 561.331; 31 C.F.R. § 562.312).
Released on August 6, 2019
689. What is the definition of the “copper sector of Iran”?
The term copper sector of Iran means the mining, refining, processing, or manufacturing of copper or copper products in Iran. (31 C.F.R. § 561.334; 31 C.F.R. § 562.314).
Released on August 6, 2019
690. What are the definitions of “copper” and “copper products”?
The terms copper and copper products mean any raw, semi-fabricated, fabricated, or finished form of copper or copper alloy of all grades, sizes, and thicknesses, including in the following forms: ores and concentrates; copper mattes; cement copper (precipitated copper); refined, unrefined, wrought, or unwrought copper; billets; cathodes; bars, rods, profiles, plates, sheets, strips, foil, tubes, and pipes; tube and pipe fittings; powders and flakes; reservoirs, tanks, vats, and similar containers; wire, stranded wire, ropes, cables, and plaited band; castings, stampings, and forgings; and waste and scrap, including slag. (31 C.F.R. § 561.333; 31 C.F.R. § 562.314).
Released on August 6, 2019
691. Will the provision of bunkering services to a non-Iranian vessel carrying sanctionable goods to or from Iran be subject to sanctions?
If a non-Iranian vessel is transporting sanctionable goods to or from Iran (including, but not limited to, petroleum, petroleum products, or petrochemical products from Iran; goods used in connection with the automotive sector of Iran; or iron, iron products, aluminum, aluminum products, steel, steel products, copper, or copper products from Iran), bunkering of that non-Iranian vessel in a country other than Iran — and related payments for these bunkering services — risk being subject to sanctions unless an applicable waiver or exception applies. For example, persons providing bunkering services to a non-Iranian vessel transporting petroleum or petroleum products from Iran could be designated under subsection 1(a)(ii) of E.O. 13846 if such activities involve the provision of material support for, or goods or services to or in support of, NIOC or NICO. Persons that knowingly provide bunkering services to a non-Iranian vessel carrying only petroleum or petroleum products from Iran could likewise be sanctioned under section 3(a)(ii) of E.O. 13846 if that transaction is determined to be a significant transaction for the purchase, acquisition, sale, transport, or marketing of those items.
Released on September 5, 2019
692. Will the provision of bunkering services for an Iranian vessel be subject to sanctions?
Section 1244(d)(1) of IFCA makes sanctionable knowingly selling, supplying, or transferring to or from Iran significant goods or services used in connection with Iran’s energy, shipping, or shipbuilding sectors. (See FAQ 289 above for an interpretation of “significant.”) The provision of bunkering services to a vessel flying the flag of the Islamic Republic of Iran, or owned, controlled, chartered, or operated directly or indirectly by, for, or on behalf of the Government of Iran (GOI) or an Iranian person, could be sanctionable under this authority, regardless of whether the transaction involves persons that have been determined to be part of Iran’s energy, shipping, or shipbuilding sectors pursuant to Section 1244(c) of IFCA. Likewise, pursuant to section 1244(d)(2) of IFCA, a foreign financial institution could be exposed to sanctions if it knowingly conducts or facilitates a significant financial transaction for the sale, supply, or transfer to or from Iran of goods or services used in connection with Iran’s energy, shipping, or shipbuilding sectors. Payments for the provision of bunkering services to a vessel flying the flag of the Islamic Republic of Iran or owned, controlled, chartered, or operated directly or indirectly by, for, or on behalf of the GOI or an Iranian person could be sanctionable under this authority, regardless of whether the transaction involves persons that have been determined to be part of Iran’s energy, shipping, or shipbuilding sectors pursuant to Section 1244(c) of IFCA. (See FAQ 295 ).
In addition, non-U.S. persons that provide bunkering services for an Iranian vessel that has been identified as blocked property of an Iranian person on OFAC’s List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons — or that make related payments for these bunkering services — risk being designated themselves​
However, the provision of bunkering services for an Iranian vessel transporting goods subject to an exception, such as agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices, to Iran, or subject to an applicable waiver — and the making of related payments for these bunkering services — will not be exposed to sanctions, unless the transactions involve persons on the SDN List that have been designated under E.O. 13224 or E.O. 13382 in connection with Iran’s support for international terrorism or proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, including certain designated Iranian financial institutions or the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), as described in section 104(c)(2)(E) of CISADA, or activity that is subject to other sanctions authorities.
Released on September 5, 2019
804. Do sanctions on COSCO Shipping Tanker (Dalian) Seaman & Ship Management Co. apply to its corporate parent and affiliates?
COSCO Shipping Tanker (Dalian) Seaman & Ship Management Co. was determined by the Secretary of State on September 25, 2019, to meet the criteria for the imposition of sanctions under Executive Order (E.O.) 13846 , and the Secretary of State imposed certain sanctions, including blocking, on this entity. The blocking sanctions apply only to this listed entity and any entities in which it owns, directly or indirectly, a 50 percent or greater interest. Sanctions do not apply to this entity’s ultimate parent, COSCO Shipping Corporation Ltd. (COSCO). Similarly, sanctions do not apply to COSCO’s other subsidiaries or affiliates (e.g., COSCO Shipping Holdings), provided that such entities are not owned 50 percent or more in the aggregate by one or more blocked persons. U.S. persons, therefore, are not prohibited from dealing with COSCO, its non-blocked subsidiaries, or non-blocked affiliates to the extent the proposed dealings do not involve any blocked person, or any other activities prohibited pursuant to any OFAC sanctions authorities.
With respect to transactions involving non U.S. persons outside of U.S. jurisdiction, please see FAQ 805 .
Released on January 31, 2020
805. Are non-U.S. persons exposed to sanctions for providing goods or services to, or engaging in other transactions with, a non-Iranian person sanctioned under section 3 of E.O. 13846?
No, non-U.S. persons are generally not exposed to sanctions for providing goods or services to, or engaging in other transactions with, a non-Iranian person sanctioned under section 3 of E.O. 13846 .
However, please note that non-U.S. persons should ensure that the provision of goods or services to, or other transactions with such non-Iranian persons do not involve: (1) prohibited transactions by U.S. persons (including U.S. financial institutions) or U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entities, unless the transaction is exempt from regulation, or authorized by OFAC; (2) the knowing provision of significant support to an Iranian person on OFAC’s List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons (SDN List); or (3) the knowing facilitation of a significant transaction for a person on the SDN List that has been designated in connection with Iran’s support for international terrorism or proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, including designated Iranian financial institutions or the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), or other activity for which sanctions have been imposed with respect to Iran (e.g., knowingly engaging in a significant transaction for the purchase of petroleum from Iran).
For information about persons sanctioned by State Department pursuant to Section 3 of E.O. 13846, please see the relevant State press statement or Federal Register Notice.
Released on November 27, 2019
810. On December 11, 2019, the State Department announced that it would designate the Islamic Republic of Iran Shipping Lines (IRISL) and E-Sail Shipping Limited (“E-Sail”) under Executive Order (E.O.) 13382, effective June 8, 2020. IRISL and E-Sail are already listed on the SDN List. What will be the impact of the State Department’s designation of these entities under E.O. 13382?
On November 5, 2018, OFAC identified IRISL and E-Sail on the SDN List with the [IRAN] tag to indicate that they are entities meeting the definition of the Government of Iran whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to E.O. 13599.
Following their designation by the State Department under E.O. 13382, on June 8, 2020 OFAC will add the [NPWMD] and [IFSR] tags to the entries for IRISL and E-Sail on the SDN List. As a result, transactions by U.S. persons or within (or transiting) the United States involving IRISL and E-Sail will be subject to the prohibitions in the Weapons of Mass Destruction Proliferators Sanctions Regulations, 31 C.F.R. part 544 (WMDPSR), in addition to the prohibitions in E.O. 13599 implemented through the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations, 31 C.F.R. part 560 (ITSR). Non-U.S. persons that knowingly engage in certain transactions with IRISL or E-Sail risk exposure to sanctions under additional authorities.
Released on December 11, 2019
811. Can I ship agricultural commodities, food, medicine, and medical devices to Iran via IRISL or E-Sail on or after June 8, 2020?
The United States maintains broad authorizations and exceptions under U.S. sanctions that allow for the sale of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, and medical devices to Iran by U.S. and non-U.S. persons (see, e.g., FAQ 637 ). However, these authorizations and exceptions generally do not apply to transactions with persons designated pursuant to E.O. 13382.
Following the designations of IRISL and E-Sail under E.O. 13382 on June 8, 2020, transactions by U.S. persons involving IRISL or E-Sail will be subject to the prohibitions in the WMDPSR, in addition to the prohibitions in the ITSR. This means that, effective June 8, 2020, unless authorized under the WMDPSR or exempt, U.S. persons will be prohibited from engaging in transactions involving IRISL or E-Sail, including transactions for the sale of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices by U.S. persons or from the United States that are authorized under the general licenses set forth in, or specifically licensed pursuant to, sections 560.530, 560.532, or 560.533 of the ITSR.
In addition, non-U.S. persons that knowingly engage in certain transactions with IRISL or E-Sail, even for the sale to Iran of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices, risk exposure to sanctions under additional authorities.
To avoid sanctions risks, U.S. and non-U.S. persons should ensure that transactions for the sale of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices involving IRISL or E-Sail are concluded no later than June 8, 2020, when the designations of IRISL and E-Sail pursuant to E.O. 13382 come into effect.
Released on December 11, 2019
816. Is there a wind-down period for Executive Order 13902, “Imposing Sanctions with Respect to Additional Sectors of Iran” (E.O. 13902)?
Persons engaged in transactions that could be sanctioned under E.O. 13902 with respect to the construction, mining, manufacturing, and textiles sectors of the Iranian economy have a 90-day period after the issuance of E.O. 13902 to wind down those transactions without exposure to sanctions under E.O. 13902. Such persons should take the necessary steps to wind down transactions by the end of the 90-day wind-down period to avoid exposure to sanctions, and be aware that entering into new business that would be sanctionable under the E.O. on or after January 10, 2020 will not be considered wind-down activity and could be sanctioned even during the wind-down period. The wind-down period with respect to the construction, mining, manufacturing, and textiles sectors expires on April 9, 2020.
Released on January 16, 2020
821. What does General License No. 8A (GL 8A) authorize with respect to humanitarian-related transactions and activities involving the Central Bank of Iran (CBI) or the National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC)?
As a result of the CBI and NIOC's designations pursuant to Executive Order 13224 , as amended (E.O. 13224), U.S. persons are prohibited from engaging in any transaction or dealing in the property or interests in property of the CBI or NIOC under the Global Terrorism Sanctions Regulations, 31 CFR part 594 (GTSR), unless exempt or authorized by OFAC. In addition, U.S. persons and U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entities are subject to broad prohibitions on transactions or dealings involving the CBI or NIOC under the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations, 31 CFR part 560 (ITSR), unless exempt or authorized by OFAC.
GL 8A authorizes certain humanitarian-related transactions and activities involving the CBI, NIOC, or any entity in which NIOC owns a 50 percent or greater interest, that would be prohibited by the GTSR or by the ITSR as a result of the CBI and NIOC's designations under E.O. 13224 but that would have been authorized under the ITSR prior to the relevant designation under E.O. 13224. For example, if a U.S. person could have relied on general or specific licenses pursuant to sections 560.530(a) or (b), 560.532, or 560.533 of the ITSR to engage in certain activities prior to the CBI or NIOC's designations under E.O. 13224, GL 8A provides the additional authorization needed to engage in such activities.
Please note that GL 8A does not authorize humanitarian-related transactions involving Iranian financial institutions designated under E.O. 13224 other than the CBI. Please further note that the authorizations at sections 560.530, 560.532, and 560.533 remain otherwise applicable according to their terms.
Released on October 26, 2020
822. I'm a U.S. person that relied on general or specific licenses pursuant to 560.530, 560.532, or 560.533 of the ITSR to conduct humanitarian-related transactions and activities involving the Central Bank of Iran (CBI) or the National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC) prior to their designations under E.O. 13224, as amended. Is any further authorization needed to conduct such transactions following the designations of the CBI and NIOC under E.O. 13224?
No. As detailed in FAQ 821 , GL 8A authorizes certain humanitarian-related transactions and activities involving the CBI, NIOC, or any entity in which NIOC owns a 50 percent or greater interest, that would be prohibited by the GTSR or by the ITSR due to the exclusion at section 560.530(d)(5) of the ITSR. Further authorization from OFAC, beyond GL 8A, is not required for such transactions and activities involving the CBI, NIOC, or any entity in which NIOC owns a 50 percent or greater interest, that would have been authorized pursuant to a general license in sections 560.530(a) or (b), 560.532, or 560.533 of the ITSR prior to CBI and NIOC's designations under E.O. 13224, as amended. Additionally, transactions and activities authorized under specific licenses issued pursuant to sections 560.530, 560.532, or 560.533 of the ITSR involving the CBI, NIOC, or any entity in which NIOC owns a 50 percent or greater interest, are also authorized pursuant to GL 8A.
Any transactions otherwise prohibited by the ITSR or GTSR must be separately licensed pursuant to the ITSR or GTSR, as appropriate.
Released on October 26, 2020
823. Do non-U.S. persons risk exposure to U.S. secondary sanctions for engaging in humanitarian-related transactions or activities involving the Central Bank of Iran (CBI) or the National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC) that U.S. persons would be authorized to engage in under General License No. 8A (GL 8A)?
No. Non-U.S. persons generally do not risk exposure under U.S. secondary sanctions relating to Iran for engaging in the sale of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices to Iran, as such transactions are generally subject to exceptions in otherwise applicable authorities, provided the transactions do not involve persons designated in connection with Iran’s support for international terrorism or weapons of mass destruction (WMD) proliferation. Non-U.S. persons do not risk exposure under U.S. secondary sanctions for engaging in humanitarian-related transactions or activities involving the CBI, NIOC, or any entity in which NIOC owns a 50 percent or greater interest, that would be authorized under GL 8A if engaged in by a U.S. person, provided such transactions and activities do not involve any person designated in connection with Iran’s support for international terrorism or WMD proliferation, other than the CBI, NIOC, or any entity in which NIOC owns a 50 percent or greater interest.
Released on October 26, 2020
824. What is the Swiss Humanitarian Trade Arrangement (SHTA)?
On October 25, 2019, the U.S. Departments of State and the Treasury announced a new humanitarian framework to assist foreign governments and foreign financial institutions in establishing payment mechanisms to facilitate humanitarian exports to Iran that are subject to enhanced due diligence. While the United States maintains broad exceptions and authorizations for the conduct of humanitarian trade with Iran, this humanitarian framework presents an additional, voluntary option for facilitating payment for exports of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, and medical devices to Iran. The SHTA is the first operational channel to be established under this humanitarian framework, in partnership with the Swiss government. Initial pilot transactions were successfully conducted in late January 2020, and the SHTA was formally established on 27 February 2020. Under the SHTA, participating financial institutions commit to conducting enhanced due diligence to ensure that humanitarian goods reach the people of Iran and are not misused by the Iranian regime.
For more information on the humanitarian mechanism as announced by the U.S. government, please refer to the guidance published on the Treasury’s website on October 25, 2019. Additional guidance for companies and financial institutions interested in participating in the SHTA can be found in the Treasury SHTA fact sheet and OFAC FAQs 825 and 826 .
Released on February 27, 2020
825. How can parties participate in the Swiss Humanitarian Trade Arrangement (SHTA) to export humanitarian goods to Iran?
The SHTA is overseen by Switzerland's State Secretariat for Economic Affairs (SECO) and intended for use by U.S. and non-U.S. persons domiciled in Switzerland. Exporters within Swiss jurisdiction may reach out to SECO at SHTA@seco.admin.ch for further details on requirements and instructions for participating in the SHTA. In addition to any due diligence imposed under the SHTA, U.S. persons and their owned or controlled foreign entities must continue to comply with the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations, 31 C.F.R. part 560 (ITSR), when conducting exports of humanitarian goods to Iran. Certain exports and sales of humanitarian goods to Iran are authorized pursuant to sections 560.530, 560.532, and 560.533 of the ITSR. In addition, General License 8A provides additional authorizations that may be necessary for such humanitarian-related transactions due to the designations of the Central Bank of Iran and the National Iranian Oil Company under Executive Order (E.O.) 13224, as amended. For further information regarding General License 8A, please see associated FAQs 821 , 822 , and 823 . General License L also extends the authorizations, exemptions, and activity that would otherwise be excluded from prohibition under the ITSR to apply to Iranian financial institutions blocked pursuant to E.O. 13902, including those authorizations and exemptions for exports of humanitarian goods to Iran. For further information regarding General License L, please see associated FAQs 842 , 843 , and 844 .
Released on October 26, 2020
826. What options exist for exporting humanitarian goods to Iran outside the Swiss Humanitarian Trade Arrangement (SHTA)?
Transactions for the sale of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, and medical devices are not required to be processed through the SHTA. See FAQ 637 for guidance setting out existing exceptions to U.S. sanctions for the export of humanitarian goods to Iran.
Foreign governments and foreign financial institutions interested in establishing a humanitarian mechanism consistent with the guidance published on October 25, 2019, should reach out to the Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control for more information or to provide a proposed framework for evaluation. Such proposals should demonstrate careful consideration of the illustrative list of enhanced due diligence and reporting expectations described in the October 25, 2019 guidance.
Released on February 27, 2020
828. I want to help with the humanitarian response to public health concerns, including the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) outbreak, in Iran. What can I do to help while remaining compliant with U.S. sanctions?
There are a number of ways consistent with U.S. sanctions to provide humanitarian goods or assistance to the Iranian people in response to public health concerns in Iran, including the COVID-19 outbreak.
The making of humanitarian donations to recipients in Iran from the United States or by U.S. persons, including the donation of medicine intended to relieve human suffering, are generally exempt from U.S. sanctions on Iran under section 560.210(b) of the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations, 31 CFR Part 560 (ITSR), provided that such donations are not being made to the Government of Iran or other persons blocked pursuant to section 560.211 of the ITSR, or to any individual or entity listed on OFAC’s List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons (SDN List).
In addition, the United States maintains broad exceptions and authorizations that allow for the commercial sale and export of humanitarian goods, including medicine and medical devices, to Iran or the Government of Iran from the United States or by U.S. persons or U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entities, subject to certain conditions. U.S. sanctions laws provide similar allowances for sales of humanitarian goods, including medicine and medical devices, to Iran by non-U.S. persons. These exemptions, exceptions, and authorizations generally do not apply to transactions involving persons on OFAC’s SDN List that have been designated in connection with Iran’s support for international terrorism or proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, including the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC). For humanitarian transactions involving the Central Bank of Iran or the National Iranian Oil Company, which were each designated as a Specially Designated Global Terrorist pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 13224 as amended, please see General License 8A issued pursuant to the Global Terrorism Sanctions Regulations (GTSR) and the ITSR, as well as OFAC Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) 821 , 822 , and 823 .
Furthermore, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) are authorized under General License E to export or re-export services to or related to Iran in support of certain not-for-profit activities designed to directly benefit the Iranian people, including the provision of donated health-related services and distribution of donated articles such as medicine intended to be used to relieve human suffering, in Iran.
Persons interested in providing humanitarian assistance to Iran related to the COVID-19 outbreak should review sections 560.210(b), 560.530, 560.532, and 560.533 and General License E of the ITSR, General License L issued pursuant to E.O. 13902, and General License 8A issued pursuant to the GTSR and the ITSR, the guidance provided in FAQs 549 , 637 , 821 , 822 , 823 , 826​ , 842 , 843 , and 844 , and the guidance provided in   “Guidance on the Sale of Food, Agricultural Commodities, Medicine, and Medical Devices by Non-U.S. Persons to Iran” and “Clarifying Guidance on Humanitarian Assistance and Related Exports to the Iranian People.” Other types of humanitarian activities or exports by U.S. persons may be authorized pursuant to a specific license from OFAC.
Please note any transfers of funds in support of activities authorized by General License E must be made by the NGOs themselves, and not directly by U.S. individuals, in accordance with the conditions of General License E.
Updated: June 14, 2024
Released on October 26, 2020
829. Following the Secretary of State’s announcement on May 27, 2020 that he will be ending certain Iran nuclear-related waivers, will there be a wind-down period for persons engaged in activity permitted by these waivers?
Yes.  Persons engaged in activities currently permitted by the Department of State’s nuclear-related waivers associated with the Arak reactor modernization redesign, the transfer into Iran of enriched uranium for the Tehran Research Reactor, and the transfer out of Iran of certain nuclear fuel scrap and of spent research reactor fuel will have a final, 60-day wind-down period in which to cease these activities without risking exposure to covered sanctions.  The 60-day wind-down period ends on July 27, 2020.  Persons engaged in such activities should take the steps necessary to wind down those activities by July 27, 2020 to avoid potential exposure to sanctions under U.S. law. Persons engaged in such activities after that date may be exposed to certain sanctions under the Iran Freedom and Counter-Proliferation Act (IFCA) absent a waiver or exception.  IFCA provides for sanctions on persons determined to knowingly provide significant financial, material, technological, or other support to, or goods or services in support of any activity or transaction on behalf of or for the benefit of, an Iranian person on OFAC’s SDN List, such as the Atomic Energy Organization of Iran (AEOI).  IFCA also provides for sanctions on persons determined to knowingly sell, supply, or transfer, directly or indirectly, to or from Iran certain materials, including raw and semi-finished metals, if the materials are provided to or from an Iranian person on OFAC’s SDN List, such as AEOI.  For more information, please see the Department of State's Website .  [05-27-2020]
Released on May 27, 2020
830. Will OFAC target Iranian manufacturers of medicines, medical devices, or products used for sanitation or hygiene or as personal protective equipment for use in Iran pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 13902 for continuing to manufacture these items?  Will OFAC target persons conducting or facilitating transactions for the provision of such items to Iran if the transaction involves a person sanctioned under E.O. 13902?
No.  For the purposes of evaluating sanctions pursuant to E.O. 13902 , persons in Iran manufacturing medicines, medical devices, or products used for sanitation, hygiene, medical care, medical safety, and manufacturing safety, including soap, hand sanitizer, ventilators, respirators, personal hygiene products, diapers, infant and childcare items, personal protective equipment, and manufacturing safety systems, solely for use in Iran and not for export from Iran, will not be considered to be operating in the manufacturing sector of the Iranian economy. Note that persons conducting or facilitating transactions for the provision, including any sale, of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices to Iran will not be subject to sanctions under E.O. 13902.  (See FAQs 844  and  847  for more information.)
E.O. 13902 imposes sanctions with respect to any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to operate in the construction, mining, manufacturing, and textiles sectors of the Iranian economy, and any additional sectors of the Iranian economy as may be determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State.  On October 8, 2020, the Secretary of the Treasury identified the financial sector of the Iranian economy for additional sanctions under E.O. 13902.  Iranian and non-Iranian persons operating in these sectors could be subject to sanctions pursuant to E.O. 13902.
The United States maintains broad exceptions and authorizations that allow for the commercial sale and export of humanitarian goods, including medicine and medical devices, to Iran or the Government of Iran from the United States or by U.S. persons or U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entities.  Similar exceptions apply to the export of such humanitarian goods to Iran or the Government of Iran by non-U.S. persons.  However, these authorizations and exceptions do not apply to transactions involving persons on OFAC’s List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons (SDN List) that have been designated in connection with Iran’s support for international terrorism or proliferation of weapons of mass destruction (including certain designated Iranian financial institutions and the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps), or in connection with activity that is subject to other sanctions not specific to Iran, unless exempt or otherwise permitted, such as certain transactions or activities involving the Central Bank of Iran, the National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC), or any entity in which NIOC owns a 50 percent or greater interest, that are consistent with GL 8A. For further guidance related to humanitarian trade with Iran and the provision of humanitarian assistance to Iran, please see FAQ 828 .
Released on December 7, 2020
831. How will OFAC define the sectors of the Iranian economy specified in Executive Order (E.O.) 13902 of January 10, 2020?
E.O. 13902 imposes sanctions with respect to any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury to operate in the construction, mining, manufacturing, and textiles sectors of the Iranian economy, and any additional sectors of the Iranian economy as may be determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State. On October 8, 2020, the Secretary of the Treasury identified the financial sector of the Iranian economy for additional sanctions under E.O. 13902. Iranian and non-Iranian persons operating in these sectors of the Iranian economy or sectors of the Iranian economy identified in the future could be subject to sanctions.
OFAC expects to promulgate regulations that define the terms construction sector of the Iranian economy, mining sector of the Iranian economy, manufacturing sector of the Iranian economy, textiles sector of the Iranian economy, and financial sector of the Iranian economy consistent with the following:
Construction sector of the Iranian economy: The term construction sector of the Iranian economy means the production, procurement, devising, framing, or arranging in Iran of parts or materials to fabricate, shape, or form buildings or structures, including the on-site development, assembly, or construction of residential, commercial, or institutional buildings in Iran. The term applies to engaging in new work, additions, alterations, maintenance, and repairs of residential, commercial, or institutional buildings. Persons such as for-sale builders, design-build firms, and project construction management firms in Iran may be considered as operating in this sector.
Mining sector of the Iranian economy: The term mining sector of the Iranian economy means any act, process, or industry of extracting, at the surface or underground, ores, coal, precious stones, or any other minerals or geological materials from the Earth in Iran.
Manufacturing sector of the Iranian economy: The term manufacturing sector of the Iranian economy means the creation in Iran of goods by manual labor or machinery that are for export from Iran or for sale within Iran. For the purposes of evaluating sanctions pursuant to E.O. 13902, persons in Iran manufacturing medicines, medical devices, or products used for sanitation, hygiene, medical care, medical safety, and manufacturing safety, including soap, hand sanitizer, ventilators, respirators, personal hygiene products, diapers, infant and childcare items, personal protective equipment, and manufacturing safety systems, solely for use in Iran and not for export from Iran, will not be considered to be operating in the manufacturing sector of the Iranian economy. Note that persons conducting or facilitating transactions for the provision, including any sale, of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices to Iran will not be subject to sanctions under E.O. 13902.
Textiles sector of the Iranian economy: The term textiles sector of the Iranian economy means the fiber synthesis, dyeing, weaving, knitting, or felting in Iran of textiles, including apparel, carpets, cloths, fabric, or related goods, that are for export from Iran.
Financial sector of the Iranian economy: The term financial sector of the Iranian economy includes all Iranian financial institutions as defined in Section 561.320 of the Iranian Financial Sanctions Regulations, meaning any entity (including foreign branches), wherever located, organized under the laws of Iran or any jurisdiction within Iran, or owned or controlled by the Government of Iran, or in Iran, or owned or controlled by any of the foregoing, that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent.  Iranian financial institutions include but are not limited to depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money service businesses, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and holding companies, affiliates, or subsidiaries of any of the foregoing.
Persons who knowingly engage in a significant transaction for the sale, supply, or transfer to or from Iran of significant goods or services used in connection with the above-named sectors of the Iranian economy risk exposure to blocking sanctions pursuant to E.O. 13902. In addition, persons that have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, persons designated pursuant to E.O. 13902 could themselves be designated. Furthermore, foreign financial institutions that have knowingly conducted or facilitated any significant financial transaction for such designated persons risk exposure to U.S. correspondent account or payable-through account sanctions.
Released on December 7, 2020
832. What are significant goods or services used in connection with a sector of the Iranian economy specified in Executive Order (E.O.) 13902?
Persons who have knowingly engaged in a significant transaction for the sale, supply, or transfer to or from Iran of significant goods or services used in connection with the construction, mining, manufacturing, textiles, and financial sectors of the Iranian economy as described in FAQ 831 risk exposure to blocking sanctions pursuant to E.O. 13902 . Further, foreign financial institutions that have knowingly conducted or facilitated any significant financial transaction for the sale, supply, or transfer to or from Iran of significant goods or services used in connection with those sectors of the Iranian economy risk exposure to U.S. correspondent account or payable-through account sanctions.
OFAC expects to promulgate regulations defining goods and services used in connection with the construction, mining, manufacturing, textiles, and financial sectors of the Iranian economy consistent with the following (See FAQ 833 for an interpretation of the term "significant."):
Goods or services used in connection with the construction sector of the Iranian economy:
The term goods used in connection with the construction sector of the Iranian economy means equipment or materials that enable the services described below or the activities described in FAQ 831 with respect to the construction sector of the Iranian economy, including: building supplies, concrete, scaffolding, lifts, hoists, cranes, conveyors, and mechanized equipment for material handling. Goods that ensure the protection of life and prevention of injuries to persons operating in the construction sector of the Iranian economy are excluded from this definition, including personal protective equipment, safety devices, and alarm systems.
The term services used in connection with the construction sector of the Iranian economy include: blasting, demolition, dredging, electrical work, excavating, masonry, plumbing, rigging, welding, for-sale building, design-build consultations, and construction management. Services that ensure the protection of life and prevention of injuries to persons operating in the construction sector of the Iranian economy are excluded from this definition, including cleaning, safety inspections, and services necessary for use of protective goods described above.
Goods or services used in connection with the mining sector of the Iranian economy:
The term goods used in connection with the mining sector of the Iranian economy means equipment or materials that enable the services described below or the activities described in FAQ 831 with respect to the mining sector of the Iranian economy, including: boring equipment, conveyor belts, directional digging technology, haul trucks, hydraulic excavators, explosives, and power shovels. Goods that ensure the protection of life and prevention of injuries to persons operating in mines in Iran are excluded from this definition, including personal protective equipment, safety devices, ventilation systems, and alarm systems.
The term services used in connection with the mining sector of the Iranian economy includes: auguring, boring, backfilling, combusting, crushing, exploration, grinding, grading, irrigating, impounding, magnetic separation, mineral processing, geophysical surveying, mapping services, operating mines or quarries, site preparation, and related construction activities. Services that ensure the protection of life and prevention of injuries to persons operating in the mining sector of the Iranian economy are excluded from this definition, including rescue and accident response services, cleaning, safety inspections, and services necessary for use of protective goods described above.
Goods or services used in connection with the manufacturing sector of the Iranian economy:
The term goods used in connection with the manufacturing sector of the Iranian economy means equipment or materials, including raw materials, tooling machinery, and components of finished products, that enable the services described below. Goods that ensure the protection of life and prevention of injuries to persons operating in the manufacturing sector of the Iranian economy are excluded from this definition, including personal protective equipment, safety devices, and alarm systems.
The term services used in connection with the manufacturing sector of the Iranian economy includes: new installment, additions, alteration, maintenance, and repair of manufacturing equipment; procurement or supply of raw materials for the manufacturing sector of the Iranian economy; and distribution services to persons operating in the manufacturing sector of the Iranian economy. Services that ensure the protection of life and prevention of injuries to persons operating in the manufacturing sector of the Iranian economy are excluded from this definition, including cleaning services, safety inspections, and services necessary for use of protective goods described above.
Goods or services used in connection with the textiles sector of the Iranian economy:
The term goods used in connection with the textiles sector of the Iranian economy means equipment, machines, materials, and items used in the textiles sector of the Iranian economy or that enable the services described below or the activities described in FAQ 831 with respect to the textiles sector of the Iranian economy, including: looms, industrial sewing machines, industrial washers and dryers, and industrial embroidery machinery. Goods that ensure the protection of life and prevention of injuries to persons operating in the textiles sector of the Iranian economy are excluded from this definition, including personal protective equipment, safety devices, and alarm systems.
The term services used in connection with the textiles sector of the Iranian economy includes: procurement or supply of raw materials for textiles production, and design of textiles products. Services that ensure the protection of life and prevention of injuries to persons operating in the textiles sector of the Iranian economy are excluded from this definition, including cleaning services, safety inspections, and services necessary for use of protective goods described above.
Goods or services used in connection with the financial sector of the Iranian economy:
On or after November 22, 2020, persons who have knowingly engaged in a significant transaction for the sale, supply, or transfer to or from Iran of significant goods or services used in connection with the financial sector of the Iranian economy risk exposure to blocking or other sanctions under E.O. 13902 , unless the transaction is for a permitted transaction, such as humanitarian trade or a transaction or activity authorized for U.S. persons or otherwise described in FAQs 844 , 847 , 855 , or 856 .
The term goods or services used in connection with the financial sector of the Iranian economy includes new hardware or software, or upgrades to existing hardware or software, and related services, for use by Iranian financial institutions sanctioned pursuant to E.O. 13902 or the Iranian financial sector. It also includes financial services for transactions other than permitted transactions (e.g., humanitarian trade or transactions or activities authorized for U.S. persons or otherwise described in FAQs 844 , 847 , 855 , or 856 . The term does not include goods or services ordinarily incident and necessary to:
The wind down of accounts, transactions, operations, contracts, or other agreements involving the Iranian financial sector or an Iranian financial institution sanctioned pursuant to E.O. 13902 that were in effect prior to October 8, 2020.
The maintenance of accounts, transactions, operations, contracts, and other agreements involving the Iranian financial sector or an Iranian financial institution sanctioned pursuant to E.O. 13902 that were in effect prior to October 8, 2020 and: (i) are used in connection with permitted transactions, such as humanitarian trade or transactions or activities authorized for U.S. persons or otherwise described in FAQs 844 , 847 , 855 , or 856 or (ii) are otherwise necessary for the continued processing of such permitted transactions.
The Department of the Treasury continues to analyze goods and services used in connection with the financial sector of the Iranian economy and may issue additional guidance about the types of goods and services that are considered sanctionable for purposes of E.O. 13902. We urge caution in any dealings involving the Iranian financial sector or with an Iranian financial institution sanctioned pursuant to E.O. 13902.
Released on December 7, 2020
833. How will the terms “knowingly” and “significant” be interpreted for purposes of Executive Order (E.O.) 13902?
As a general matter, the Department of the Treasury intends to rely, where applicable, on definitions of terms previously included in Treasury regulations.
For purposes of E.O. 13902 , OFAC will rely on the definition of " knowingly " included in the Iranian Financial Sanctions Regulations at 31 C.F.R. § 561.314 ("The term knowingly, with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the circumstance, or the result.").
In determining whether goods or services used in connection with a sector of the Iranian economy identified pursuant to E.O. 13902 are “ significant ,” the Department of the Treasury may consider the totality of the facts and circumstances. As a general matter, the Department of the Treasury may consider some or all of the following broad factors: (a) the value and number of goods or value and frequency of services; (b) the nature of the good or services, including their type, complexity, and commercial purpose; (c) the level of awareness of management and whether the provision of goods or services is part of a pattern of conduct; (d) the involvement of designated persons in transactions involving goods and services defined in FAQ 832 ; (e) the impact of the provision of goods or services on the objectives of E.O. 13902; (f) whether the provision of the goods or services involved deceptive practices; and (g) other relevant factors that the Secretary of the Treasury deems relevant.
Released on June 5, 2020
842. What does General License L (GL L) authorize with respect to the financial sector of Iran and Iranian financial institutions (Iranian FIs) now sanctioned pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 13902?
GL L authorizes under E.O. 13902 all transactions and activities involving Iranian FIs blocked pursuant to E.O. 13902 that are authorized, exempt, or otherwise not prohibited under the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations (ITSR).  E.O. 13902, which was issued on January 10, 2020, is not incorporated into the ITSR at this time.  However, GL L effectively extends the authorizations, exemptions, and activity otherwise excluded from prohibition under the ITSR to apply to those Iranian FIs blocked under E.O. 13902.  This includes, but is not limited to, (i) transactions and activities authorized by general and specific licenses issued pursuant to the ITSR and (ii) transactions and activities ordinarily incident to such transactions and activities and necessary to give effect thereto that are consistent with section 560.405 of the ITSR.  For example, if a U.S. person or a U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity relied on a general or specific license issued pursuant to the ITSR to engage in transactions and activities involving such Iranian FIs prior to these actions under E.O. 13902, GL L provides the additional OFAC authorization needed to continue to engage in such transactions and activities.
GL L does not authorize any transactions or activities that are otherwise prohibited by the ITSR, E.O. 13902, or any other part of 31 C.F.R. chapter V.
Please note that the exemptions and authorizations in the ITSR remain otherwise applicable according to their terms.  In addition, pursuant to Section 11 of E.O. 13902, the prohibitions of E.O. 13902 do not apply with respect to any person for conducting or facilitating a transaction for the provision (including any sale) of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices to Iran; pursuant to Section 12 of E.O. 13902, the prohibitions of E.O. 13902 do not apply with respect to transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United Nations (including its specialized agencies, programmes, funds, and related organizations) by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.
Released on October 8, 2020
843. I'm a U.S. person that relied on general or specific licenses issued pursuant to the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations (ITSR) to conduct humanitarian-related or other transactions and activities prior to the identification of the financial sector of Iran and sanctioning of a number of Iranian financial institutions (Iranian FIs) under E.O. 13902. Is any further authorization needed to conduct such transactions following these actions?
No. General License (GL) L extends authorizations provided through specific and general licenses issued under the ITSR to apply to transactions and activities involving Iranian FIs blocked pursuant to E.O. 13902 . Further authorization from OFAC beyond GL L is not required under E.O. 13902, so long as such transactions and activities are authorized pursuant to a general license or a specific license under the ITSR, including for humanitarian-related transactions and activities authorized pursuant to the ITSR that are not covered by the exception in Section 11 of E.O. 13902.
Any transactions otherwise prohibited by the ITSR or any other part of 31 C.F.R. chapter V must be separately licensed, as appropriate.
Released on October 8, 2020
844. Do non-U.S. persons risk exposure to U.S. secondary sanctions for engaging in humanitarian-related transactions, or other activities that would be authorized under the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations and General License (GL) L if engaged in by a U.S. person, involving Iranian financial institutions (Iranian FIs) sanctioned pursuant to E.O. 13902?
No.  Non-U.S. persons generally do not risk exposure to U.S. secondary sanctions for engaging in the sale of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices to Iran, as such transactions are generally subject to exceptions in  E.O. 13902 and other applicable sanctions authorities.
However, such transactions should not involve persons designated on OFAC’s List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons (SDN List) in connection with Iran’s support for international terrorism or proliferation of weapons of mass destruction (WMD) unless otherwise permitted, such as certain transactions or activities involving the Central Bank of Iran, the National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC), or any entity in which NIOC owns a 50 percent or greater interest, that are consistent with GL 8A .
Additionally, non-U.S. persons do not risk exposure to U.S. secondary sanctions for engaging in transactions and activities involving the Iranian financial sector or an Iranian FI blocked pursuant to E.O. 13902 that would be authorized under the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations (ITSR) and  GL L if engaged in by a U.S. person, provided such transactions and activities do not involve any person designated on the SDN List in connection with Iran’s support for international terrorism or proliferation of WMD.
Released on October 26, 2020
845. Will there be a wind-down period for non-U.S. persons engaged in previously non-sanctionable activity involving the Iranian financial sector or Iranian financial institutions (FIs) that are now sanctioned pursuant to E.O. 13902?
Yes.  Non-U.S. persons engaged in transactions and activities involving the Iranian financial sector or any Iranian FI sanctioned pursuant to E.O. 13902 that were not previously sanctionable will have 45 days to conclude these activities without risking exposure to sanctions.  The 45-day wind-down period ends on November 22, 2020.  Non-U.S. persons engaged in certain activities involving Iranian FIs sanctioned under E.O. 13902 after that date may be exposed to sanctions.  OFAC continues to analyze whether select types of transactions and activities may, nonetheless, be non-significant and, thus, not sanctionable even after the end of the wind-down period.  OFAC anticipates issuing additional guidance regarding the scope of transactions and activity by non-U.S. persons that will become sanctionable after November 22, 2020.
Note that, even after the wind-down period, non-U.S. persons do not risk exposure to sanctions for engaging in humanitarian-related transactions or activities, including conducting or facilitating a transaction for the provision (including any sale) of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, and medical devices to Iran, with Iranian FIs sanctioned pursuant to E.O. 13902.  In addition, GL L authorizes under E.O. 13902 those transactions and activities involving Iranian FIs blocked pursuant to E.O. 13902 that are authorized, exempt, or otherwise not prohibited under the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations.  For more information, please see FAQs 842  and 844 .
Released on October 8, 2020
846. How do the sanctions imposed on the Iranian financial sector and Iranian financial institutions (FIs) pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 13902 affect waivers issued by the Department of State and exceptions set forth in the Iranian Freedom and Counter-proliferation Act of 2012 (IFCA)?
Waivers issued by the Department of State (State) and exceptions set forth in IFCA remain valid and activities conducted under them involving Iranian FIs are not sanctionable during the wind-down period described in FAQ 845 .  Persons engaged in transactions or activities involving the Iranian financial sector or Iranian FIs sanctioned pursuant to E.O. 13902 that are permitted by a current State waiver or IFCA exception may continue these activities, in accordance with the conditions of those waivers or exceptions, without risking exposure to sanctions.  The State Department, in consultation with OFAC, continues to assess whether these waivers and exceptions require modification prior to the close of the wind-down period to account for actions taken pursuant to E.O. 13902 and ensure uninterrupted activity, as appropriate.  For more information, please contact the Department of State.
Released on October 8, 2020
847. As a result of the sanctions on the Iranian financial sector and certain Iranian financial institutions (Iranian FIs) pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 13902, do non-U.S. persons risk exposure to sanctions for continuing to engage in previously non-sanctionable trade involving the Iranian financial sector or E.O. 13902-sanctioned Iranian FIs, even after the end of the 45-day wind-down period?
For purposes of E.O. 13902, OFAC would not generally view transactions or activities by non-U.S. persons to be sanctionable if they are consistent with activities that would be permissible if conducted by U.S. persons.  As noted in FAQ 842 , General License (GL) L authorizes U.S. persons to engage in transactions and activities involving Iranian FIs blocked pursuant to E.O. 13902 that are authorized, exempt, or otherwise excluded from prohibition under the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations, 31 C.F.R. part 560 (ITSR) .  In addition, pursuant to Sections 11 and 12 of E.O. 13902, respectively, the prohibitions of E.O. 13902 do not apply:  (i) with respect to any person for conducting or facilitating a transaction for the provision (including any sale) of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices to Iran; or (ii) to transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United Nations (including its specialized agencies, programmes, funds, and related organizations) by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.
For purposes of secondary sanctions, as described in FAQ 844 , non-U.S. persons are not exposed to sanctions for engaging in transactions and activities involving the Iranian financial sector or an Iranian FI blocked pursuant to E.O. 13902 that would be authorized for U.S. persons under GL L.
In addition, OFAC would generally view as non-sanctionable any transactions or activities by foreign financial institutions (FFIs) and other non-U.S. persons that involve the Iranian financial sector or Iranian FIs sanctioned solely pursuant to E.O. 13599 and E.O. 13902, and that fall within the categories set forth below, to the extent such transactions or activities are not already exempt or otherwise excepted from sanctions:
The sale, supply, or transfer of goods and services to Iran – as well as intermediate goods used for manufacturing of such goods in Iran – solely for use in Iran and not for export from Iran, to ensure the protection of life, health, and safety, such as: products used for sanitation, hygiene, medical care, medical safety, and manufacturing safety, including soap, hand sanitizer, ventilators, respirators, personal hygiene products, diapers, infant and childcare items, personal protective equipment, manufacturing safety systems, safety devices, alarm systems, and ventilation systems.
Arrangement and facilitation of travel into, out of, and within Iran, by air, sea, or land, including travel service providers and air carrier services;
The provision of medical or healthcare services to persons in Iran or ordinarily resident in Iran; and
The provision of educational services by academic institutions outside Iran to persons in Iran or ordinarily resident in Iran.
Please note that the guidance above applies only with respect to transactions or activities involving the Iranian financial sector or Iranian FIs sanctioned solely pursuant to E.O. 13599 and E.O. 13902. These transactions and activities should not involve persons designated on OFAC’s List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons (SDN List) in connection with Iran’s support for international terrorism or proliferation of weapons of mass destruction (WMD), unless exempt or otherwise permitted.
Released on December 7, 2020
853. Can U.S. academic institutions provide online learning services to Iranian students located outside the United States?  Can U.S. technology companies provide software and services to assist Iranian students in accessing online coursework?
General licenses issued under the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations (ITSR) authorize certain U.S. academic institutions and other U.S. persons to provide certain services and software to Iranian students.  These general licenses include:
General License G (GL G) authorizes accredited graduate and undergraduate degree-granting U.S. academic institutions, including their contractors, to export services to students located in Iran, or located outside of Iran but who are ordinarily resident in Iran (“Iranian students”), to sign up for and participate in certain undergraduate level online courses, notably:  (i) courses in the humanities, social sciences, law, or business that are the equivalent of courses ordinarily required for the completion of undergraduate degree programs in the humanities, social sciences, law, or business; and (ii) introductory undergraduate level science, technology, engineering, or mathematics courses ordinarily required for the completion of undergraduate degree programs in the humanities, social sciences, law, or business.  In addition, under 31 CFR § 560.405 , certain transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction are also authorized.  OFAC interprets 31 CFR § 560.405 to authorize certain transactions ordinarily incident to courses authorized by GL G, including the giving of assignments and testing and grading of Iranian students.
Section 560.540 of the ITSR authorizes the exportation to Iran of certain services and software incident to the exchange of communications over the internet, such as instant messaging, chat and email, social networking, sharing of photos and movies, web browsing, blogging, social media platforms, collaboration platforms, video conferencing, e-gaming platforms, e-learning platforms, automated translation, web maps, and user authentication services, as well as certain cloud-based services.  OFAC interprets these authorizations to cover video conferencing software and related services, as well as educational technology software and related services, that allow students to view courses and course materials, complete tests and assignments, receive grades, participate in discussions, and other, similar course-related online activity, provided that the software meets the additional criteria of the applicable authorization.  For more guidance on 31 CFR § 560.540 of the ITSR, please see FAQs 338–348 , 434–443 , 1087–1089 , and 1110 .
To export services to Iranian students that fall outside of these authorizations, U.S. persons may apply for a specific license through the OFAC License Application Page .
Please note that the general licenses summarized above do not authorize the exportation of goods (including software), services, or technology to the Government of Iran, except as authorized under 31 CFR § 560.540(a)(6), or to persons blocked under any authority administered by OFAC, including OFAC’s counterterrorism or counterproliferation authorities.
Date Updated: May 16, 2024
Released on August 24, 2021
855. How will transactions related to official activities of international organizations be treated for purposes of secondary sanctions to the extent that the Iranian financial sector or Iranian financial institutions sanctioned under Executive Order (E.O.) 13902 are involved?
Pursuant to Section 12 of E.O. 13902 , the prohibitions of E.O. 13902 do not apply to transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United Nations (including its specialized agencies, programmes, funds, and related organizations) by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.  In addition, transactions and activities involving an Iranian financial institution (Iranian FI) blocked under E.O. 13902 are authorized under General License (GL) L to the extent they are authorized, exempt, or otherwise not prohibited by the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations, 31 C.F.R. part 560 (ITSR) .  Section 560.539 of the ITSR authorizes transactions for the official business of certain international organizations, including the United Nations and its Specialized Agencies, Programmes, Funds, and Related Organizations, including the World Bank Group, the International Monetary Fund, the International Atomic Energy Agency, the International Labor Organization, and the World Health Organization.
For purposes of secondary sanctions, as described in FAQ 844 , non-U.S. persons are not exposed to sanctions for engaging in transactions and activities involving the Iranian financial sector or an Iranian FI blocked pursuant to E.O. 13902 that would be authorized for U.S. persons under GL L.
In addition, Treasury will generally view the following additional transactions by non-U.S. persons involving Iranian FIs blocked solely pursuant to E.O. 13599 and E.O. 13902 or the Iranian financial sector, as non-sanctionable:
The operating expenses or other official business of missions in Iran of international organizations in which Iran is a member or participant, or for the personal use of employees of the missions; and
The operating expenses or other official business associated with the Government of Iran’s missions to international organizations in which Iran is a member or participant, or for the personal use of employees of the missions, including the provision of routine goods and services to such missions or their employees by non-U.S. persons.
Please note that the guidance above applies only with respect to transactions or activities involving the Iranian financial sector or Iranian FIs sanctioned solely pursuant to E.O. 13599 and E.O. 13902.  These transactions and activities should not involve persons designated on OFAC’s List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons (SDN List) in connection with Iran’s support for international terrorism or proliferation of weapons of mass destruction (WMD), unless exempt or otherwise permitted.
Released on December 7, 2020
856. How will transactions related to Iran’s participation in legal proceedings, including administrative, judicial, arbitral proceedings, and proceedings before international courts and tribunals, be treated for purposes of secondary sanctions to the extent that Iranian financial institutions or the Iranian financial sector sanctioned under Executive Order (E.O.) 13902 are involved?
Transactions and activities involving Iranian financial institutions blocked under E.O. 13902 remain authorized under General License (GL) L to the extent they are authorized, exempt, or otherwise not prohibited by the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations, 31 C.F.R. part 560 (ITSR) . This authorization includes certain transactions and activities relating to the initiation and conduct of legal proceedings authorized or otherwise permitted pursuant to section 560.510 or 560.525 of the ITSR, such as transactions or activities related to the defense of individuals in legal proceedings in Iran brought by the Government of Iran, including any arrest, investigation, prosecution, or detention. Such permissible transactions and activities may include reasonable and customary payments for the provision of legal services, bail and/or bond payments, judicial costs and fees, costs for the production of documents and appearances of witnesses, and payment of experts.
In addition, for purposes of secondary sanctions, as described in FAQ 844 , non-U.S. persons are not exposed to sanctions for engaging in transactions and activities involving the Iranian financial sector or an Iranian FI blocked pursuant to E.O. 13902 that would be authorized for U.S. persons under GL L.
Please note that, unless permitted by GL L and FAQ 844, payments made to Iran involving blocked Iranian persons — including the Government of Iran, including any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof — in connection with awards, orders, decisions, or settlement of claims may be subject to sanctions. OFAC will assess such transactions on a case-by-case basis.
Please also note that guidance above applies only with respect to transactions or activities involving Iranian FIs sanctioned solely pursuant to E.O. 13599 and E.O. 13902 or the Iranian financial sector.  These transactions and activities should not involve persons designated on OFAC’s List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons (SDN List) in connection with Iran’s support for international terrorism or proliferation of weapons of mass destruction (WMD) unless exempt or otherwise permitted.
Released on December 7, 2020
932. Do U.S. sanctions prohibit U.S. persons from visiting, or making donations to, the Imam Reza Holy Shrine in Mashhad, Iran?
URGENT NOTE: The U.S. Department of State cautions against any travel by U.S. persons to Iran. The Department of State has issued a Level Four Travel Advisory ( Do Not Travel ) for Iran due to the risk of kidnapping, arbitrary arrest, and detention of U.S. citizens . See additional guidance available at  https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories/iran-travel-advisory.html .
Transactions ordinarily incident to travel to or from Iran by U.S. persons fall within an exemption under the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations (ITSR), 31 C.F.R. part 560, and therefore generally are not prohibited. See, e.g., 31 CFR. § 560.210(d) . Exempt transactions include religious pilgrimages by U.S. persons to the Imam Reza Holy Shrine and the acquisition of goods or services for personal use while traveling. Furthermore, donations of articles, such as food, clothing, and medicine, by U.S. persons to the Imam Reza Holy Shrine intended to be used to alleviate human suffering also fall within an exemption and therefore generally are not prohibited under the ITSR.
However, U.S. persons may be prohibited from engaging in certain transactions involving persons blocked under sanctions programs or authorities outside the scope of the ITSR, such as Astan Quds Razavi (AQR) and its subsidiary, the Holy Shrine Organization, which oversees the Imam Reza Holy Shrine. AQR was designated and added to OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List on January 13, 2021 pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 13876 for being owned or controlled by the Supreme Leader of Iran. The Holy Shrine Organization is also considered blocked under E.O. 13876 pursuant to OFAC's 50 Percent Rule to the extent it is 50 percent or more owned by AQR. More information about OFAC's 50 Percent Rule is available at https://ofac.treasury.gov/faqs/401 . U.S. persons are advised to act with caution when considering transactions or activities involving AQR or the Holy Shrine Organization.
Those seeking additional guidance on transactions and activities involving the Imam Reza Holy Shrine may contact the OFAC Compliance Hotline or may request a specific license or interpretive guidance from OFAC's Licensing Division online at https://licensing.ofac.treas.gov/Apply/Introduction.aspx .
Released on September 30, 2021
1087. Does the general license at 31 CFR § 560.540 authorize the exportation of fee-based or no-cost cloud-based services and software to Iran that are used to support communications tools authorized by 31 CFR § 560.540?
Yes.  Section 560.540(a)(1) of the ITSR authorizes the exportation to Iran of fee-based or no-cost cloud-based services incident to the exchange of communications over the internet.  In addition, 31 CFR § 560.540(a)(2) authorizes the exportation to Iran of cloud-based software that is incident to, or enables services incident to, communications over the Internet.  Software exported under 31 CFR § 560.540(a)(2) either: (i) must be designated as EAR99 under the Export Administration Regulations , 15 CFR parts 730 through 774 (EAR), excluded from the EAR because it is described under 15 CFR § 734,3(b)(3), or classified under Export Control Classification Number (ECCN) 5D992.c; or (ii) if the software is not subject to the EAR because it is of foreign origin, must be the type of software that would be designated EAR99 or classified under ECCN 5D992.c if it were subject to the EAR. For purposes of 31 CFR § 560.540, cloud-based services and software are determined to be incident to the exchange of communications over the Internet when they are used to support transactions authorized or exempt under the ITSR, including the following categories of activities:
instant messaging, chat, email, social networking, sharing of photos and movies, web browsing, blogging, social media platforms, collaboration platforms, video conferencing, e-gaming platforms, e-learning platforms, automated translation, web maps, and user authentication services;
the export, reexport, or provision of software and services listed in the categories (6) through (11) of the 31 CFR § 560.540 List of Services, Software, and Hardware Incident to Communications, including anti-virus and anti-malware software, anti-tracking software, mobile operating systems and related software, anti-censorship tools and related software; Virtual Private Network (VPN) client software and related software; and provisioning and verification software for Secure Sockets Layers (SSL) certificates and related software, provided that the software meets the relevant conditions of 31 CFR § 560.540, including applicable export control classification-related criteria;
transactions that are exempt from the prohibitions of the ITSR, including news outlets and media websites covered by the exemption for information or informational materials in 31 CFR § 560.210(c) of the ITSR; and
other transactions authorized under the ITSR, such as transactions necessary and ordinarily incident to publishing authorized pursuant to 31 CFR § 560.538, transactions for the conduct of the official business of certain international organizations pursuant to 31 CFR § 560.539, the sale and exportation of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, and certain software and services pursuant to 31 CFR § 560.530, and transactions authorized pursuant to any general or specific licenses issued under the ITSR.
Please note that 31 CFR § 560.540(a)(1) does not authorize the exportation of cloud-based services or software to the Government of Iran, except as specified in 31 CFR § 560.540(a)(6).  Date Updated: May 16, 2024
Released on September 23, 2022
1088. What are OFAC’s due diligence expectations for cloud-based service or software providers whose services and software support communication tools are authorized by 31 CFR § 560.540?
A cloud-based service or software provider whose non-Iranian customers provide services or software to persons in Iran via the cloud may rely upon the authorization in 31 CFR § 560.540 to provide access to Iran, provided that such provider conducts due diligence based on information available to it in the ordinary course of business to confirm that the non-Iranian customer: (1) is not a person whose property and interests in property are blocked, except as authorized under paragraph (a)(6) of 31 CFR § 560.540; and (2) provides software and services that fall within one of the categories described in FAQ 1087 , including activity authorized or exempt under the ITSR.
In instances where cloud-based services or software are used to support the exportation of services or software to Iran authorized under 31 CFR § 560.540, OFAC does not generally expect a cloud-based service or software provider to evaluate the ultimate end use or end user of the authorized software or services, provided the cloud-based provider conducts due diligence based on information available to it in the ordinary course of business.  For example, if a cloud-based service or software provider supports non-Iranian customers providing access in Iran to news websites or Virtual Private Networks (VPNs) that fall within one of the categories described in FAQ 1087 , the cloud-based service or software provider need not evaluate whether the provision of access via the cloud involving Iranian end users is related to communication.  By contrast, if a U.S. cloud-based service or software provider supports non-Iranian customers providing certain enterprise management software to Iran, such as payroll management software, the cloud-based service or software provider would be expected to evaluate whether its support of the software is a prohibited export of software or services to Iran because payroll management software is not generally considered a qualifying software incident to communications.
Please note that 31 CFR § 560.540 does not authorize the importation into the United States of Iranian-origin software or the dealing in such software, including the hosting of Iranian-origin software on a mobile application store.  Persons seeking to engage in such activity may submit applications for specific licenses to OFAC that describe the nature of the software and the Iranian developers involved.
Date Updated: May 16, 2024
Released on September 23, 2022
1089. Can persons seeking to export software, services, or hardware to Iran in support of internet freedom apply for a specific license from OFAC if the export is not authorized by 31 CFR § 560.540?
Yes, persons seeking to export software, services, or hardware to Iran or conduct other activities in support of internet freedom in Iran that are not exempt transactions or authorized by the general license in 31 CFR § 560.540 or other authorizations are encouraged to submit a specific license application to through the OFAC License Application Page .
Date Updated: May 16, 2024
Released on September 23, 2022
1110. What are key changes made by the May 17, 2024, amendment to 31 CFR § 560.540 in comparison to Iran General License D-2?
On May 17, 2024, OFAC amended 31 CFR § 560.540 of the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations (ITSR) to incorporate the provisions of General License (GL) D-2 into 31 CFR § 560.540, with certain additional amendments. Section 560.540 supersedes GL D-2, which OFAC issued on September 23, 2022, to further support the provision of communication tools to ordinary Iranians and assist in their efforts to resist repressive internet censorship and surveillance tools deployed by the Iranian government.  In addition to incorporating GL D-2 into the ITSR, the amended 31 CFR § 560.540 includes several key changes:
The list of services, software, and hardware incident to communications authorized for exportation, reexportation, or provision to Iran previously found in the Annex to GL D-2 is now found in the 31 CFR § 560.540 List of Services, Software, and Hardware Incident to Communications.
Effective June 17, 2024 OFAC is amending the 31 CFR § 560.540 List of Services, Software, and Hardware Incident to Communications to exclude laptops, tablets, and personal computing devices with an "Adjusted Peak Performance" ("APP") exceeding 1 Weighted TeraFLOP (WT).
The authorization previously found at paragraph (a)(5) of GL D-2 and now incorporated into 31 CFR § 560.540(a)(5) is revised to authorize transactions for the importation of hardware or software into third countries, in addition to the United States, provided that the items were previously exported to Iran pursuant to an authorization issued pursuant to the ITSR.
OFAC has added a new 31 CFR § 560.540(a)(7) to authorize the exportation or reexportation of certain services conducted outside Iran to install, repair, or replace hardware or software authorized for exportation, reexportation, or provision to Iran by paragraphs (a)(2) or (3). The new 31 CFR § 560.540(a)(7) authorizes such services only when the service provider is located outside Iran and does not authorize the service provider to engage in such services while in Iran.
Section 560.540(b)(3) , which incorporates paragraph (b) of GL D-2, is also being revised to clarify the restrictions related to provision of web-hosting services or of domain name registration services in Iran authorized by 31 CFR § 560.540(a) by specifically excluding from authorization the exportation or reexportation of web-hosting services for websites of commercial entities located in Iran or of domain name registration services for or on behalf of the Government of Iran or another person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to Section 560.211 of the ITSR.
Section 560.540(d) has been added to set forth the case-by-case licensing policy previously set forth in paragraph (d) of GL D-2, for additional activities that support internet freedom in Iran, such as development and hosting of anti-surveillance software by Iranian developers. Such services would also include, for example, the development and hosting of anti-censoring software by Iranian software developers and the exportation of certain software development tools to Iranians seeking to create their own anti-surveillance or anti-censorship apps and upload them to mobile app sites.
Date Updated: May 16, 2024
Released on January 11, 2023
1119. Does General License (GL) O authorize all wind-down transactions for any vessel that was blocked on March 2, 2023?  What if the vessel contains Iranian-origin merchandise?
Iran GL O authorizes U.S. persons to wind down all transactions otherwise prohibited by section 5 of Executive Order 13846 involving any vessel blocked as part of the March 2, 2023 designation (“blocked vessels”), subject to certain conditions.  This includes, among other activities, the unloading of any non-Iranian merchandise loaded on the blocked vessel as of March 2, 2023, provided there is no other sanctions nexus.
U.S. persons are separately prohibited, pursuant to the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations, 31 CFR part 560 (ITSR) , from engaging in most Iran-related transactions.  Accordingly, for blocked vessels containing Iranian-origin merchandise or involving persons ordinarily resident in Iran, Iran GL O provides a separate, more limited authorization under the ITSR.  This narrower authorization under the ITSR allows only transactions ordinarily incident and necessary to certain limited safety and environmental situations:  the safe docking and anchoring of any of the blocked vessels in port; the preservation of the health and safety of the crew; or emergency repairs or environmental mitigation or protection activities.  The offloading of Iranian-origin petroleum, petroleum products, or petrochemical products, regardless of the situation, is not authorized pursuant to Iran GL O and requires a specific license from OFAC.
U.S. financial institutions may also process transactions conducted by non-U.S. persons if such transactions would be authorized for U.S. persons pursuant to Iran GL O.
Iran GL O is in effect until 12:01 eastern daylight time, June 30, 2023.  Persons unable to complete authorized transactions involving the blocked vessels specified in Iran GL O before its expiration are encouraged to seek guidance from OFAC in advance of that date.  As with all OFAC GLs, Iran GL O only authorizes against the authorities identified in the GL and contains certain conditions.  Please see Iran GL O  for further details.
Released on March 2, 2023
1120. Do non-U.S. persons risk exposure to U.S. sanctions for engaging in transactions that U.S. persons would be authorized to engage in under Iran General License (GL) O?
No.  Non-U.S. persons generally do not risk exposure to sanctions for engaging in activities or facilitating transactions for such activities that would be authorized for U.S. persons pursuant to GL O .  Non-U.S. persons unable to wind down transactions in accordance with Iran GL O before 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time, June 30, 2023, are encouraged to seek guidance from OFAC in advance of that date.
Released on March 2, 2023
1134. What is the humanitarian channel in Qatar?
The humanitarian channel in Qatar (HC) was established to further facilitate the flow of humanitarian assistance to the people of Iran consistent with the U.S. government’s longstanding support for humanitarian trade.  Similar to humanitarian channels established under previous administrations, the HC is designed to support the Iranian people’s access to food, agricultural goods, medicine, and medical devices under stringent due diligence measures that guard against money laundering, misuse, and evasion of U.S. sanctions.
The HC offers a voluntary option for facilitating payments for humanitarian exports to Iran, but parties may continue to avail themselves of existing exceptions and authorizations to conduct humanitarian trade with Iran outside of the channel.  The United States has long maintained broad exceptions and authorizations for the sale of food, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices to Iran by U.S. and non-U.S. persons.  OFAC’s Guidance on the Sale of Food, Agricultural Commodities, Medicine, and Medical Devices by Non-U.S. Persons to Iran reflects longstanding regulations related to exports of humanitarian goods to Iran.  These exceptions and authorizations are also clearly stated on the Iran Sanctions Program website maintained by the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control.
The HC has not and does not allow funds to be released to the Government of Iran or payments to Iranian companies.  In partnership with the Government of Qatar and financial institutions operating the HC — all of which have committed to stringent due diligence measures — the United States will closely monitor the HC and will take appropriate action should Iran attempt to use these funds for purposes other than permitted humanitarian purchases.  The HC does not lift any U.S. sanctions on Iran, and the U.S. government continues to impose sanctions on Iran’s malign activity, including in response to Iran’s weapons proliferation and its support for international terrorism.
Released on September 18, 2023
1135. How can companies participate in the humanitarian channel in Qatar to export humanitarian goods to Iran?
Financial institutions participating in the humanitarian channel in Qatar (HC) have received specific guidance from the U.S. government. Companies interested in participating in transactions under the HC should coordinate directly with the Qatari International Media Office at info@imo.gov.qa and should not hesitate to contact the OFAC Compliance Hotline with specific questions.
OFAC's requirements related to humanitarian trade with Iran have not changed. Companies interested in participating in transactions pursuant to existing exceptions and authorizations for the conduct of humanitarian trade with Iran may continue to do so outside of the HC. For example, certain humanitarian transactions involving the Central Bank of Iran and the National Iranian Oil Company are permissible under General License 8A ( see also FAQ 823 ). OFAC FAQ 828 and our Guidance on the Sale of Food, Agricultural Commodities, Medicine, and Medical Devices by Non-U.S. Persons to Iran reflect OFAC's longstanding regulations related to exports of humanitarian goods to Iran. Iranian financial institutions designated under Executive Order (E.O.) 13902 are subject to the exception in E.O. 13902 with respect to conducting or facilitating transactions for the provision (including any sale) of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices to Iran.
U.S. persons and their owned or controlled foreign entities must continue to comply with the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations, 31 C.F.R. part 560 (ITSR), when conducting exports of humanitarian goods to Iran. Certain exports and sales of humanitarian goods to Iran are authorized pursuant to sections 560.530 , 560.532 , and 560.533 of the ITSR.
Released on September 18, 2023
1249. Are "toll" payments to Iran for safe passage through the Strait of Hormuz authorized? Is receiving guarantees or services from Iran for or related to safe passage authorized, even when no payment is made?
No. Payments to and guarantees from the Government of Iran or the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), directly or indirectly, for safe passage through the Strait of Hormuz would not be authorized for U.S. persons, including U.S. financial institutions, or for U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entities. Regardless of whether a payment is made, U.S. persons are prohibited from receiving services from the Government of Iran, including services related to a guarantee of safe passage. For additional guidance, please see " OFAC Alert: Sanctions Risks of Iranian Demands for Strait of Hormuz Passage ."
Iran created a new entity, the so-called Persian Gulf Strait Authority (PGSA), to collect tolls and extort vessels transiting the Strait of Hormuz. On May 27, OFAC designated PGSA pursuant to our counterterrorism authorities, for having materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, the IRGC. Cooperating with or engaging in direct or indirect transactions or dealings, including the receipt of services from the PGSA, carries sanctions risk.
Payments or services for or related to safe passage also create significant sanctions exposure for non-U.S. persons. Specifically, foreign financial institutions and other non-U.S. persons risk exposure to sanctions for engaging in certain transactions or activities involving designated or otherwise blocked persons. This includes the Government of Iran and the IRGC, which is designated as a Foreign Terrorist Organization and sanctioned pursuant to several authorities, including nonproliferation and counterterrorism sanctions authorities.
Foreign persons that are engaged in certain transactions could also risk sanctions exposure under authorities such as Executive Order 13902 , which authorizes sanctions on, among others, persons who have knowingly engaged in certain significant transactions involving determined sectors of the Iranian economy or who have been determined to operate in those sectors, including the financial and petroleum and petrochemical sectors.
Updated Date: May 29, 2026
Released on April 28, 2026
1250. Are Iranian digital asset exchanges blocked under OFAC sanctions?
Yes. Executive Order (E.O.) 13599 , as implemented by section 560.211(b) of the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations, 31 CFR part 560 (ITSR), blocks the property and interests in property of Iranian financial institutions. An Iranian financial institution is blocked pursuant to E.O. 13599 regardless of whether it is listed on OFAC's List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons (SDN List). Iranian digital asset exchanges meet the regulatory definition of an "Iranian financial institution" as persons that engage in the business of activities described in section 560.324 of the ITSR .
All property and interests in property of Iranian digital asset exchanges in the possession or control of U.S. persons, including U.S. financial institutions, or within U.S. jurisdiction, are blocked pursuant to section 560.211 of the ITSR and must be reported to OFAC. See FAQ 160 for additional information regarding the sanctions implications of E.O. 13599. For additional information regarding the application of sanctions to digital assets, please see FAQs 559 , 560 , 561 , 562 , 563 , 594 , 646 , and 647 , as well as OFAC's Sanctions Compliance Guidance for the Virtual Currency Industry .
Released on May 1, 2026
1257. Are non-U.S. persons exposed to sanctions risk for dealing with Iran-based digital asset exchanges Nobitex, Wallex, Bitpin, and Ramzinex following their June 2, 2026 designation?
Yes. OFAC's June 2, 2026 designation of Iran-based digital asset exchanges Nobitex, Wallex, Bitpin, and Ramzinex pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 13902 for operating in the Iranian financial sector means that foreign financial institutions and other non-U.S. persons who engage in certain transactions with these exchanges also risk exposure to sanctions under E.O. 13902. For example, pursuant to E.O. 13902, OFAC has authority to:
Designate persons that have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, Nobitex, Wallex, Bitpin, and Ramzinex; or
Prohibit or impose strict conditions on correspondent account or payable-through account opening or maintenance by foreign financial institutions that have knowingly conducted or facilitated any significant financial transaction for or on behalf of Nobitex, Wallex, Bitpin, and Ramzinex.
In addition, foreign financial institutions may be exposed to mandatory statutory sanctions for engaging in significant financial transactions with Nobitex, Wallex, Bitpin, and Ramzinex, designated Iranian financial institutions, pursuant to the National Defense Authorization Act of Fiscal Year 2012 . Please see FAQ 174 for more information.
Released on June 2, 2026
